Hello Mary,

Thank you for checking on me. I wish you a good holiday season too.

I'm actually having a pretty tough morning. My computer speakers recently started blowing out and crackling annoyingly and this morning the lamp on my TV burned out. My computers are all 6 to 12 years old now and are starting to crash more frequently. I'm feeling pretty depressed and hopeless, that my life can only keep getting worse as everything I have deteriorates around me and I can't afford to fix or replace any of it. I can't imagine landing another good paying job, becoming able to drive again, or finding another girlfriend. With the huge tax cuts, I expect the Republicans will turn as they've wanted to, cutting Social Security pretty soon so that I won't be able to afford to even maintain my place and take care of Darjee anymore. She's getting older too. My regular heart pain makes me feel some relief that maybe I will just die in my sleep sometime soon, without having to endure things getting too terribly worse. Even if that were to happen, I worry that nobody would find my corpse in time to save Darj.

I felt pretty happy and optimistic just over a week ago, on my birthday, but today I feel extremely sullen. I am holding on to the few good things in my life, but having a particularly hard time imagining my future as anything but more bleak and just dimming away into final darkness. Maybe a welcome and fitting end to my earlier recklessness and extravagance. While I am thinking death may provide relief for me somewhat soon, I'm not feeling inclined to complete suicide drastically right now or anything. There's nobody who I could trust to take care of Darj if I were forced into a hospital again right now either, so I need to stick around here to protect and provide for her. Please don't raise any alarms or anything. I'm hanging in. Maybe you could please just offer me some good advice and encouragement today?

Hopefully my check will come this afternoon and I will be able to afford to buy her litter and get myself some hot food to probably make me feel a bit better. I just feel constantly farther away from my old home of Los Angeles, no family nearby, just a couple friends, lonely and worthless. Can't provide for myself anymore. Can't do anything but acknowledge constant decay. I probably shouldn't send this to you, since it would jeopardize Darj if you make me go away, and she's almost all that matters to me right now. Please don't hospitalize me for feeling this way. I need her to be okay. Please just comfort me and let me know of ways I might establish a future worth striving for again?

I want warm summer again so much. I'm going to eat the last of my oatmeal here and try to think of how to make money again. It's so stupid that if I make anything between $750 and $2350 in a month, I jeopardize my benefits for less than they're presently worth. Means testing is such a pernicious poverty trap and deterrent to trying. I wish I knew how to make things significantly better.

Thanks again for your support. You're a good help. You can call me if you want to, when you have time. (920)636-6271.

Sincerely,
-Pip
