5CEK0E0 - LoveLost  (8:00 pm)

Love Lost              Jewlz

PipStuart@Gmail.Com to LukyJewlz@Yahoo.Com

What happened between us Jewlz?  From my perspective: We had strong
passionate love once and you have methodically and unequivocally
extinguished it.

I'm realizing that we've used a lot of metaphors and other phrases in
mostly aggressive and mean-spirited ways during our arguments, so I'm
going to make a best effort to avoid those particular ones we have a
history of employing because they carry too much weight and baggage
between us.  We've laden these expressions with our frustrations for
each other and I recognize my tendency to vehemently resent their
faulty implications (especially when their entire context was
misappropriated).  They have grown bitter in my mind and heart and I'm
more likely to become mean if I use them again as it seems (at least
for a moment) they make the most powerful arguments when they're
flipped around and made to show your guilt or inadequacy in the same
or worse ways than when you leveled them against me.  We've each been
on the good and bad end of these issues but I'm of the opinion that
these phrases carry too much weight to be used constructively anymore.
They only conjure further ill-will and resentment between us now so,
I intend to avoid:

  common sense
  suit up and show up
  rocket science
  all cards on the table
  figure it out
  book/street smarts

Similarly, I don't think it's productive to address any direct insults
like "bitch" or "idiot" which we've each been called at one time or
another.  Actually, I may not have called you a bitch but that's a
minor detail.

I think the following simpler ideas (often the underlying concepts
which correspond to the above phrases) are what I hope I can confine
myself to.  These include:

  responsibility
  respect
  sensitivity
  intelligence
  consideration
  diligence

I'm sure many more are appropriate to list but the above lists should
provide representative examples of my intent.  With the above
groundwork laid, let's begin with my analysis of the profound
discrepancy between our problem solving approaches.

I am a pensive man.  I think a lot.  I enjoy, and rely upon, reading
and researching topics I wish to know more about.  I also enjoy
communication.  I strive to communicate clearly with everyone I
encounter (whether that be verbal, through body-language, via e-mail,
etc.).  This e-mail I'm writing you now is a representative example of
my consistent desire to communicate clearly.  I also act on my
decisions.  I don't sit around doing nothing every day.  I like to
take care of things that matter to me.  Of course I do many other
things but I think these three (thinking, communicating, and acting
[i.e., performing the solution]) are my main ways of solving problems.
For important problems, I usually think and communicate in a tight
feedback loop where the decision on how to act is based on a great
deal of thinking which is informed (and refined) by more focused
communication.  So when we've had problems, my main solutions have
consistently been to sit and think and listen and speak and work
through it.  I certainly may have thought too much sometimes...
especially when you've been more ready to act on your initial reaction
(a.k.a. gut-feeling).  I may not have thoroughly known my opinions or
motivations or communicated them in the best way for them to be
completely understood.  I may not have comprehended everything that
was said to me.  I may not have made the best decisions or acted on
them with the conviction or enthusiasm you expected or demanded.  I
was, however, committed to doing each of these as well as I could.

By contrast, let's look at your primary problem solving responses when
faced with the most difficult issues.  Yours seem to be violence,
partying, and shopping.  I'm not saying you never think or communicate
or act on reasoned decisions.  I'm saying that your natural responses
to severe problems are to come off hostile and selfish.  Of course
you're entitled to be and do whatever you want and you never needed me
for anything (and still don't) but you did choose to be together with
me for several months and to attempt to cultivate a relationship so
you did at least want something from me.  Maybe what you wanted from
me was mostly the good concepts listed above.  I have made constant
and concerted attempts to embody all those things for both myself and
for you.

We've had many good and bad times since we met.  Some of the
significantly bad times were more exclusive to one of us than the
other and some of them were more together than individual.  I'll try
to list them in as close to chronological order as I can remember with
designations for our primary participation.

  you   your father's passing
  you   Charlie's manipulativeness of you through any situation possible
  me    my motorcycle crash
  you   you abandoning me to go to visit Meghan (which I wrote you a
          similar letter about before)
  you   Meghan coming back at me like it was my fault
  you * Andrea's bad friendship/roommateship
  you   Goat Hill work tension
  you   you needing to move
  you   your frustrations with your family, Vince, and other "friends"
          of your dad who you felt did not live up to their obligations
  you   you getting fired from Goat Hill
  you   Meghan fighting with Tony
  you * you fighting with Meghan
  you * you fighting with Tony
  you * you hitting Tony's car and the neighbor's truck with yours
  you   you returning to old income and managerial tension at Trader Joe's
  you   Charlie showing up at TJ's
  me    me losing my job
  you * unwinding loudly all night with Trader Joe's friends and
          upsetting Cesar and his family
  you * your pre-trial
  you   getting puppies
  you * Jasmine's drawn-out (and aborted) departure
  you   Alisha changing her mind about dogs because Lucky was inside
          when she inspected the shower
  us  * fighting over the pups
  you * hitting me
  me    my red motorcycle getting stolen
  you   numb and hurting hands
  you * flipping your truck
  you * potential DUI / felony
  us    pregnancy / engagement
  you   recuperation from the crash / attending to your arm wound,
          truck, and pregnancy
  you * partying and shopping instead of talking about our future and
          that of our child
  you   dumping me
  you   finally moving into your own place

You knowingly smoked speed and cigarettes and drank alcohol with our
baby developing inside you.  I was wanting to think and carefully
consider our options before I knew what you had done.  Afterwards, my
love for you and my hope that we could make a good family began their
rapid descent.  A significant number of the problems we have faced
above have been at least exacerbated by your sleeplessness and
reliance on speed.  I put asterisks by the ones I remember speed being
involved in although I wouldn't be surprised if you were tweaked or
coming down for many more of the above items that I just didn't know
about.  I'm not saying the drug is at fault.  I'm saying you
habitually choose too much speed to coincide with your constant
conscious ruination of things.  The (comparatively meager) three major
bad events I have suffered above were more happenstance than the
result of bad decisions or execution on my part.  The lion's share of
your problems seem to be more direct results of your poor decisions.
Many of your above problems made you temporarily decide to move out.
Maybe I should not have been so generous to allow and encouraged us to
work things out.  I did everything I could to make things smooth in
spite of our qualms.  I probably should have recognized sooner that
almost everything is too much and too soon for us.  We both have
passed on many good chances for you to move out into your own place
because I think we both wanted it to work even though we could see
that things were tenuous at best.

I made a grave mistake thinking you could quit tweaking for the sake
of our relationship and the already precarious development of our
child.  You have demonstrated unforgivable irresponsibility, and a
wanton lack of respect for yourself, me, and our baby.  You have been
habitually cruel and insensitive.  You have not made intelligent
decisions throughout our relationship.  You have not been sufficiently
considerate.  You were mostly diligent but with things that didn't
matter nearly as much as those already mentioned.  I could easily quit
drugs and drinking for my child (even though it is not developing
inside me).  Last week, I wanted to think and communicate and act
together.  You chose to party and shop the very first Friday night
after we knew you were pregnant.  You can no longer qualify with me as
a responsible or loving woman.  Even if you are those things most of
the time, the fact that you occassionally (and with increasing
frequency under pressure) fall back on violent solutions and
intoxication to avoid the difficulties of life vividly illustrate your
unfitness for motherhood or a healthy relationship on your own, much
less with me.  Maybe I'm so hard to communicate with for you because I
don't always go by my gut.  I don't have experience, nor do I intend
to solve problems with violence.  I thought you wanted to change but I
don't believe that anymore.  I no longer trust you.  The love I
recently felt for you is rapidly waning.  Please abort the baby we
should not have conceived.  I don't want any connection or obligation
to you anymore and I don't think you should want those with me.  We
are too different and too unwilling to grow together in the ways that
would be necessary for us to have any worthwhile future.  You have
repeatedly turned your back on me and I have waited patiently to work
it out with you... but now that you have done it to my baby too, you
have spent your last reserves.  I write this letter over my shoulder
to you because I have finally turned my back on you too and I am
preparing to move on.

If you decide to keep the baby out of spite and proof that you have
and deserve power over me, I wish to reason with you that a child
should be given a clean slate since it is innocent of the
circumstances it is birthed into.  If you think a child will give you
more pure love than your dogs and it's a fine manipulative tool to
hold over my head, you are precisely the misguided game-player you
claim so emphatically not to be.  I was (and still am) ready to change
my life around completely to have a healthy child.  You are not
capable of having a healthy child anytime soon since you cannot think
of anything but yourself for more than four days.

I've loved you deeply... as thoroughly as I could.  I have not held
back my feelings or thoughts, my sadnesses, my vulnerabilities,
motivations, happiness, finances, love, or any other substantial part
of my life from you.  If I have known anything myself, it has been
available to you.  You traded my love (of both you and our child) for
tweak and some Jeter Nike's.  You claim to want a nice home.  The way
you're headed, I was your best chance at establishing one and you
couldn't handle it.  I have a phenomenally strong network of family
and friends that are all loving and caring and considerate people.
They don't resort to violence or drugs or shopping to resolve problems
(regardless of if they're mad or frustrated or confused).  I have
short-term and long-term goals.  I have a growing career and a zest
for life.  I am too good for you and you have proven it once and for
all.  I gave you many chances to establish your own dreams alongside
mine which we could accomplish together.  For that, you treated me
terribly, nearly killed me, yourself, and our child.  You have
consistently run the other way from me in painful demonstration of
your defiant and destructive capacity.

My heart is broken.  I mourn the loss of the love I felt for you and
the hope I had that we could continue to grow into having a happier
home to nurture a new family in.  When you were loving and kind, you
were the most wonderful girlfriend I have yet known...  but you have
gone too far this time with your devastating behavior and there seems
to be nothing left to salvage.  Even if we weren't meant to be living
together or married, I would have been the best dad I could to our
child if you had stayed clean and sober for the entire pregnancy (as I
unnecessarily volunteered to do from a warm supportive heart).  You
didn't last four days.  I was so wrong to think that you could change
and handle the responsibility.  About a month ago, you were distraught
because Jasmine was going to move Gabe away from his school and
friends to avoid a court trial.  You should examine yourself more
closely before you point fingers.  Some mistakes can't be undone.  We
still have a small window of time to undo ours properly.  Please don't
have this child.  Wait until you are really ready and you have found
another good guy.  If you insist on having this child, you are being
even more selfish than you have already been.  Please think and
communicate honestly (with yourself first and then with your most
trustworthy and supportive family and friends and then maybe with me
also if you want to) and then make a good decision and act on it.  I
recommend you stop all tweaking and drinking immediately so that you
have the best chance of thinking and deciding clearly and acting
effectively.  If you abort the child, you can go back to doing
whatever the hell you want on your own but it's not fair for you to do
anything of the sort now.  I'll tell you this (and it's not meant as a
shallow threat but rather an expression of the honest result of a
decision I am committed to): If you keep the baby and it is born
disabled in any way that is a plausible result of your ongoing
partying during pregnancy, I will declare bankruptcy and will eagerly
expend all of my effort and intelligence on seeing that you and it get
as little of my money and direct attention as possible.  I
emphatically refuse to condone, endorse, or subsidize your damage to a
child we conceived together.  If you have knowingly harmed it before
birth, I refuse to acknowledge it as my own, since neither the child,
nor I, deserve to suffer in the horrendous future you are
constructing.  I'll die happily on my motorcycle before I support a
woman who cares more about tweaking than her child, herself, and the
man she claims to have loved.  My compassion and sensitivity have
expired.  I cannot give you the benefit of the doubt if there's not a
shred of doubt remaining.  It's such bitter irony that you think of me
and call me weak and insecure when I exhibit consistent strength of
spirit and your so-called strength is a facade.  Your physical
strength is worthless when you exhibit no true backbone of integrity.
Your true character is shallow and oblivious.  You have had so little
patience for my insecurities and lack of trust for my girlfriend
(which are the direct and obvious results of me being thoroughly lied
to and cheated on and betrayed and beaten up by the likes of you for
my whole life).  Maybe I'm getting mean here at the end but I'm still
trying to say only what I truly feel without exaggeration.  You will
not be awarded any more unearned chances from me until you abort the
child you should not carry to term.  Please let me know if you are
still capable of making, and following through on, a good decision for
the sake of your baby.

From the moment I heard you were pregnant and wanted to keep the
child, my life stopped being primarily for me.  I require my wife (and
the mother of my child) to have the same unwavering resolve.  I was
prepared to live more for my child than myself for the next 18 years
(and part of that preparation is the sober consideration of the
possibility that maybe the child should be aborted until a more
opportune time).  You weren't prepared to change (in the most
essential ways necessary) for even four days.  You probably would have
tweaked even sooner than that if you weren't recovering from your
drunk driving accident all week (or, who knows, maybe you were cutting
up lines at your mom's house while I was at work).  You are not the
strong and capable woman of integrity I am looking for and because you
knowingly persist in taking speed, your child is no longer mine
either.  Speed and alcohol have supplanted me as your baby's father.
I doubt you'll have a happy home together but at least it is likely to
be violent and familiar to you.  It's a rich mistake for you to claim
you wasted your time with me.  In your current state, you'd live up to
your tattoo and your older dog's name to find a single other guy half
as good as me within the remainder of your distressing life.  You're
the one who has wasted my time.  I have been excellent to you for as
long as I could... but after all your abuse, it's so difficult to be
nice at all anymore because I hate what you've done to our baby and
our future and our relationship and me.  You have savagely slaughtered
everything we had.  I cannot imagine forgiving you.  If you don't try
to keep the baby, I would be willing to hold on to an ounce of caring
and respect for you that we might be able to be friends again one day.
If you do try to carry the baby to term, I am confident that I will
lose the final bit of respect I have for you as a worthwhile person.
I don't want to know you at all anymore if you insist on further
destroying yourself and people around you.  You have been terrible.
I'm sorry that I expect you to continue on as you have before because
I so earnestly wish you would change even now.  You could be honest
with yourself and recognize that you are not ready for motherhood.  If
you want to be a mother, change yourself and prepare for it properly
and maturely.  Don't foolishly force this tragedy to happen now.
There's a better way.

Sincerely, your ex,
-Pip

On 12/14/05, Julia Olivencia <lukyjewlz@yahoo.com> wrote:
> Yes I am.  It's a long shot.......but would you like to meet for lunch or
> dinner??
You can call me if you'd like to arrange to meet for dinner...
although I don't really care to see you or deal with you any further
until you have expunged our critical error (or are at least taking
serious steps to do so).  Why don't you call me when you have had the
sense to make an abortion appointment?  I doubt I could be hungry (or
even sufficiently pleasant) around you until you are actively
resolving our outstanding grievance.

> Love,
> Jewlz
Sober,
-Pip
