Date: Sun, 5 Feb 2006 14:49:07 -0800
From: Pip <Pip@LBox.Org>
To: LukyJewlz@Yahoo.Com
Bcc: PipStuart@Gmail.Com
Subject: Marin P.O.Box?
Message-ID: <20060205224907.GA407@lbox.org>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Disposition: inline
User-Agent: Mutt/1.5.11
Status: RO

Hello Jewlz,

Please reply with your P.O.Box or forwarding address so that I can get
your mail to you.  It looks like your Trader Joe's BlueCross card has
arrived as well as some Highway Patrol and other important letters.  I
would appreciate if you'd file a Change-of-Address form with the Post
Office since I shouldn't be involved in your mail route.

Thank you for leaving me alone since my last e-mail.  As ironic as it
may seem, it renews my hope that you do care about yourself and me that
you would honor my desire for separation.  You may have squandered my
hope during this intervening period by simply being too high and drunk
and angry to direct your rage at me yet... or maybe you're completely
back together with Char where the violence and craziness are familiar
and don't challenge you to change.  I'd prefer to continue expecting
the best you are capable of though, even if you have almost nothing but
demonstrations to the contrary... so instead of the above two
possibilities, I'm trying to assume that you have continued "getting
your life in tip top shaoe" as you last claimed.  Please describe your
shaoe to me in your reply if you care to. =)

Your postal mail may be our final loose-end and it saddens me to need
to tie it but I regrettably still feel that I have lost as much blood
as I can bear for a while.  Maybe I will be ready for another round
this summer if you have found a way to outgrow your wanton
destruction by then.

I know we have both been pulling on the other increasingly throughout
our relationship.  I have longed for, and encouraged, you to steer clear
of almost all of your friends because I think their drama and
irresponsibility feeds yours.  You have nearly driven two of my old
friends and roommates from my life through your drunken rage and
threats.  That escalating tension is no good for either of us.  I can't
easily become a violent asshole without a clear reason like you... and
you can't magically become a responsible career-minded person with goals
and self-control like me.  You don't know how to consistently remain
calm and think through solutions so you throw baby tantrums and
devastate everything in your immediate vicinity while I am constantly
thinking and acting on problem solutions.

We are too different.  Until one or both of us change significantly, we
can't have a worthwhile (i.e., mutually beneficial) relationship.

I still wonder about two things though.

The first is whether you are just on a slow suicide (irrespective of
any love or goodness around you) and that you're so selfish or confused
that you want to take everything down to the grave with you.  If this
is the case, obviously I couldn't save you.  You'd have to decide for
yourself (and act upon it) that you, and people who love you, don't
deserve to be hurt by your carelessness.  In this case, I could only
remind you that you don't have to be worthless.  As long as you still
live, you can still search and struggle and strive to find a good way.

The second is whether your destruction of (or at least damage to) our
baby, our relationship, yourself and me each individually, friends,
dogs, etc. was just your natural self or whether it was a gross
counter-reaction to the undeserved (and probably overwhelming) love,
trust, and faith I placed in you.  Like maybe if I had been more
attentive and considerate, I would have realized that you're totally
not ready for something so serious, requiring so much responsibility, as
I tried to thrust upon you.  Maybe I drove you to revolt from me in
worse ways than you would have otherwise because I loved and cared for
you as much as I could (i.e., too much).  If that were the case, it
would follow that maybe I shouldn't have tried to love you so deeply
(or I should have pulled back to a slower pace and a more reserved
outlook on our potential) because it was too much for you to feel you
deserved or could handle it.  I guess I'll never know about the past
since I can only speculate but our future (or lack thereof) should prove
a good indicator.

The bottom line is I still love the sweet beautiful smart sexy core
you and the immense hope I had that your beauty could flourish under
the warmth of my love.  I also love myself even more than I have loved
you and I need to protect myself from further harm you would deal out.

I want you to be yourself and to find happiness and fulfillment
wherever you can but I'm clear that I also need to be happy and
fulfilled.  I need friends and a girlfriend who enrich my life rather
than jeopardize it at every turn.  If we both remain as we have been,
we can have no satisfying future.  I'm sorry that I have to keep
reiterating this so many different ways but it is both for you and to
remind myself that my longing for you, and proximity to you, have
yielded nearly constant damage and pain.  I have been destructive
myself by remaining near to you.  You are fire that I need to stop
playing with... but you're so enticing and hot and compelling to me
that I have been reluctant when decisiveness was in order.  You burn
out-of-control and I cannot quench you and you will consume me too if
you choose to and I allow it.  So I had to put my foot down.  Our ashes
are still underfoot and need to smolder for several months before any
more oxygen and kindling are brought to bear.  Okay... I'm getting
silly and taking the fire analogy too far so let me tie this up.

Please reply with your address and any closing thoughts you would like
to leave me with until mid-June.  I need much time to heal and you
probably do too but you may also choose to grow a lot towards whoever
you truly want to be within that time.  I continue to extend my love
and hope to you but now they must wait months for your contact and
genuine affirmation that they were not misplaced in you... that they
just required patience.  I hope you have as happy a birthday as
possible without me (just as I tried to do during December without
you).  Apart in symmetry and potential reunions after each.

with distant love,
-Pip
