Fucking Jewlz,

As much as I try to stop thinking about you, there's a few things I feel I need to write down.

0) You are the most destructive person I have ever known (and certainly whom I have ever loved).

1) You are terrible at loving yourself and, consequently, you do a hideous job of loving anyone else.  Maybe this is your greatest skill because I imagine it
would be difficult for you to be much worse to yourself or me.

2) You and Mike got drunk together last week and were both rude to each other.  Actually, it appears Mike was mostly being honest (in saying that your dog is
significantly more likely to piss in the house than his and that you are a spun-out, insane bitch which everyone who encountered you that night can agree with)
but saying the truth to you (drunk or not) is rude because you hate yourself and can't handle the truth.  According to your assessment, Mike deserves to be
maimed or killed for his insolence.  You have been at least ten times as rude to me as Mike was to you that night so, by your own metric, do you deserve a fate
worse than death?

Please don't mistake this as a threat.  I don't operate like you.  It is meant to make you think (if you are even still capable of thinking through your
incessant anger).  If Mike deserves to be crippled or dead for his rudeness, then you deserve it much more.  If, however, by some amazing feat of
interpretation, you don't deserve to die for your unparalleled rudeness, then neither does he.

Why don't you learn some self-control?  Some self-respect?  Some self-worth?  Some self-esteem?

If you can't, you really ought to kill yourself before you destroy anyone or anything else.  Maybe you're convinced that you were supposed to die with Mark
back so many years ago.  Maybe your father's passing was the final nail in your coffin in spite of any good people around you.  If you have an ounce of
consideration left, you'd confine your devastating destruction to your own body or, barring that, the inner cities where violence is the language understood
best by the common and simple people you're more likely to find there.  I'm glad you're back with Char.  Maybe you two will give each other stitches and breaks
and some of the physical pain will appease your mental anguish... the torment wrought by your worthlessness and inadequacy to yourselves, everyone who knows
you, and society at-large.

You're an insane imbecile and I was gravely mistaken to ever get anywhere near you.  You cannot be saved.  You are a lost cause.  And, even now, I bet your
rage bubbles up to cloud your eyes and ears and mouth so that your natural response to my honest expression here is that you'll make me pay for being rude to
you too.  If you need an outlet for your anger... if you need to kill someone innocent because they tell you the truth that you don't want to hear, then stay
away from my friends and family and just kill me.  It was my mistake to endanger any of them with your volatility and I should bear the brunt of the violence
and war that you wage against the cruel world.

Maybe you know you don't deserve to be loved but I loved you anyway.  Maybe you know that you hardly had any worth when we met (and maybe there's none left
now), but that little bit was all I wanted to see in you.  You are more cruel and terrible than the larger world.  Some thugs who raped and nearly murdered
you were not committing violence against your love.  They were opportunistic bastards looking for a big monetary payout.  You, on the other hand, hurt and
threaten with death your so-called friends, loved ones, and their friends.  You belong in a mental institution or prison even more than your attackers.  That
sounds like a rotten thing to say but it is logical to me.  Those criminals violated you and killed Mark in a dispicable but understandable pursuit of money.
You violate and are eager to kill people who have been nothing but nice to you and who you claim you want an ongoing relationship with.  You're nuts!

You know how I'm a Libertarian and advocate personal freedom?  You do not qualify for you rob other peoples' freedom.  The core tenet of Libertarianism is the
non-initiation of force.  You initiate force on a whim.  You are a rabid dog... a stupid fucking bitch.  I wish I'd never have to see you or deal with you ever
again.  You want to kill yourself and take everyone else down with you.  Do yourself a favor and go quietly and quickly to your grave alone because that's all
it seems you've ever been and all you'll ever be.

You think you're great because you're a "survivor"?  Every other living thing is too!  What other worthwhile traits do you have?  How do you benefit people
around you or society in general?  You don't!  You're a drain.  You're garbage that should sit on the curb in the rain.  Shove off!
