74J1aFH - Thu Apr 19 01:36:15:17 2007

Hey Sarah Julia,

Responding to your first double-sided half-page that you wrote on Friday, April 13th:

It's good to hear from you.  I've been missing you and wondering what was up.  I'm glad we got to spend that sweet night together too.  It felt so right
for us to comfort, touch, and love each other then, leaving our other worries behind.  The timing was perfect.  Our sex felt so wonderful and sleeping
together was nice too.  I remember you were so wet that I woke up after a few hours with another hard-on and we were still so closely interlocked that I
entered you again and moved slowly and you began moaning and moving with me as your depth of sleep became shallower and closer to wakefulness.  I kept
things gentle and slow, kissing and caressing your beautiful body, and it seemed like a wonderfully stimulating dream for both of us.  I thought you'd
happily open your eyes awake at any moment but you probably stayed barely dreamily asleep, tossing your head and moving so much more excitedly and then
your moans and movements climaxed as pleased satisfaction seemed to wash over your lovely face and I was overcome with ecstatic stimulation in seeing
and feeling your orgasm happen so peacefully that I came inside you again so happily... and we quivered together for a few moments as your moaning and
breathing and movements tapered back down to relative stillness... and a few minutes later, you began snoring loudly again, sound asleep.  Then I felt
a little creeped out as though maybe I had violated you, taken advantage of you, had effectively raped your defenseless corpse... because maybe you
never fully woke up and might not have explicitly welcomed my unannounced penetration.  Since we already shared beautiful love-making together shortly
before that, I sincerely hope that the second encounter can remain for both of us far more of what it seemed at first: a wonderfully sensual orgasmic
dream I was able to provide for you and enjoy simultaneously as just more delicious sexual magic between us.  Now that I have told you the truth about
my perspective on what happened that night, I would appreciate if you can reassure me that you don't feel violated by what I did and I need not feel
paranoid that I betrayed your trust by not bringing you to complete consentual wakefulness for additional intercourse.  If, instead, you are upset by
how that happened because it is impolite, inappropriate, and inexcusable for anyone to ever enter your vagina under any circumstances while you're
sleeping, I apologize humbly in advance.  I have worried a lot that, even though it seemed so good and nice at the time, that maybe it was terribly
wrong of me and I cherish you so much that I dread the idea that I've inadvertently done something which harmed you or would make you lose faith and
trust in me.  I think it would be obvious that I can't imagine ever having a problem if the roles were reversed.  I mean, if we've ever made sweet love
together and then fallen asleep, I would never have any problem with you finding me hard while sleeping or stimulating me to sufficient stiffness to be
reinserted into you and making love to me until either or both of us came, regardless of whether I woke up from your erotic mischief or remained in a
fantastic orgasmic dream throughout.  I sincerely hope you don't mind either.  Please let me know how you feel about it, when you can.

Sorry to hear you caught a new stupid case.  Is it worse or compounded with the old one?  The hours are off to call Chris at Alladin right now but
where can you go if you were to get bailed out again anyway?  Not to be a dick but you said yourself that maybe it's for the best for you to be back
there for a while.  Of course I'd prefer you to be free, comfortable, and happy but hopefully you can still make the best of your current situation and
shoot for two out of three.

I've got a lot of pressure heating up at work.  On top of the technical pressures of our difficult software problems, one of the guys is really volatile
and causes all kinds of new problems on his own.  He and I clash really badly sometimes and this week I made a very calm and reasonable suggestion to
him, which I thought would help him, and in front of everybody, he started shouting at me to shut the fuck up and that he doesn't have to do anything he
doesn't want to, and then he rushed up in my face, noses almost touching, like he was about to shove me or punch me and he shouted that I have a big
fucking mouth.  I stared him straight in the eyes as calmly as I could and just said "You do too."  After a few seconds of his agitated tension and me
unflinching, he stormed away to his office to cool down.  Nobody has a good explanation about why he would overreact so aggressively to me but someone
thinks it's because he considers me to be unworthy of respect because my favorite language is Perl, which may mean to him that I'm just a lower-class
"scripter" and not a real valuable member of true elite programmers who deserve to be listened to.  If that's what's going on, it must throw him for an
awful loop for me to be right and him wrong on more and more issues. I've even tried to help him in many other ways but it all backfires.  He's trouble
for all of us and maybe he is becoming increasingly mentally unstable.  It's kinda sad.  I've worried a lot that I've made things worse even while
trying to help.  Even trying to stay away, sometimes he seeks me out like he's asking for me to lose my patience with him and smack him down with harsh
words.  He's a strange old guy.  I think he said he's 56 years old now.  He's one of the original researchers who worked on the C++ programming language
so many decades ago.  He goes around bothering everyone for hours every day, asking simple questions and then not listening to the answers, interrupting
and insulting everyone, constantly being pessimistic about everything we're doing, acting helpless, and getting nothing productive done.  It's a
difficult problem.  He probably used to be very smart and maybe he still is but he just needs some more favorable conditions before he can be useful to
our team.  We've all wasted a lot of time and energy on him and he just doesn't seem like he'll ever turn around to be more worthwhile than burdensome.
The managers still haven't quite let him go yet either though since they might be generous enough to give him another chance, to try to fit him some
other place.  It'll probably be bad if he finds some sneaky way to piss me off and exhaust my patience to where I shout him down and tell him just what
a worthless idiot and a pathetic joke he has become at our office.  I try to care about the poor old guy, and don't want to crush his probably fragile
and inflated self-image, but it's not easy.  I hope they just fire him without it setting him off into violence, destruction, or a mental breakdown.  If
he could just leave without incident, I think we could all happily get back to enjoying working together.  Sorry if I've annoyed you with too much
detail but it has been stressing me out personally.  A very weird problem that just being myself might make worse.  Strange.

So, that's one of the big things I'm dealing with at work.  I may try to call Chris at Alladin about you when I can with all the other stuff I need to
take care of, but I don't think it likely that I'll be able to put up a bunch of money to bail you out.  Maybe once I learn the amount, I can write you
about it and whether I might be able to afford it and you can reply with what you'd have in mind for yourself after getting out and we can see if it
makes sense to both of us.  I hope that sounds fair to you.  Sorry if it's more harsh than you'd prefer.  I think we've got to try to make good
decisions and do the best we can with all of our responsibilities and resources.

Back to your letter, I'm glad you're okay and out of Jim's (even though you of course miss your horsie).  I'm also glad to hear you are again enjoying
such modern amenities as hot water and consistent meals.

I can try to order you some books, magazines, and paper soon.  I'll also try to call the number you gave me in order to find out how to put some money
on your books, how to send you some reading and writing gifts you've requested, and when I might be able to visit you (in case I can get over to the
peninsula to do that).  I may need you to please be patient on a lot of this stuff.  I'm trying to write you back quickly after I've received your
letter to let you know I still love you and care about you but also try to understand that I've got a lot of fucking shit to take care of, I'm barely
recovering from a terrible flu, I'm mentally frazzled and frenzied in a lot of ways... and just having some difficulty concentrating on getting to work
and making progress on my assignments.  I've got pressures at home with some of the people and things here, my computer is crashing way too frequently
and it's totally pissing me off that I can't figure out what is causing it, angry creditors still call me a lot, bleh I've just got so much crap that
seems to need attention that I can't resolve yet.  I want to relax and feel cool but I've got to concentrate on keeping my job first.  As tough as other
stuff might seem, it would all get horribly worse if I was just looking for work again.  I'm still just on a contract right now too, with no benefits,
so there's still some need for me to prove I'm worth it for them to convert me over to a full-time salaried employee when my contract is scheduled to
expire next month.  When I can breathe freely and feel stable enough, I'll do my best to get and send you things you're wanting.  Please forgive me if
I'm relatively slow with it.

I'm not sure what I think of you going to a program.  What would it mean for you to go to a program?  Why would you want to go yourself and why not?
I'll be glad to give you my opinion, once I know what it would mean.

It was so nice to hold each other.  I'm glad you remember it even if it brings tears.  I love you too.  You're welcome for any comfort I provide you.  I
also thank you for the good comforting you have given me.  I'm glad you feel relatively safe with me.  I've never been able to protect you perfectly (or
even hardly at all, when you haven't wanted it), but I am glad to continue to try to protect you as well as I can, to help keep you safer and more
secure than you'd probably be otherwise.

Sometimes I feel like I'm doing okay and other times I feel way off.  I've e-mailed my dad some more since you and I last spoke and it has been mostly
cool.  In some ways, I'd really like to get my life in maybe some other more comfortable and stable order, to where I can e-mail my dad more frequently
and get to know him better.  Maybe that can happen soon but just not yet, or I just need to make time and sacrifice other things.  I don't know.  It
feels like to few things help and too many things drain.  Like even this letter to you is mixed.  I love you and I care about you, I miss you when we're
apart, and I want to help you to feel taken care of and to have what you need... like I'll totally try to call your mom very soon to see if I can get an
idea of how well she's doing, to help her if she needs something in some way that I can provide, and to report her status back to you when I can, which
will hopefully give you the reassurance you desire.  Then I can imagine you being way bored and how much it would help you out for me to get a bunch of
interesting things delivered to you, if not also trying to visit you myself... and I really don't mean to be a selfish asshole about this but hopefully
you can understand that it just feels right now like a bunch more shit I need to keep track of, worry about, and get taken care of.  Maybe things will
feel calmer for me soon but I'm just trippin' about needing to get things done, needing help, and getting to have fewer things to do, but it feels like
it might start piling so high that I just can't care about whether any of it is important anymore.  I'm pretty sure it's mostly the dude at work just
throwing me so crazily far off-balance that normal stuff is feeling like too much until that roadblock can be cleared up.  I hope you can be patient
with me and not take any of this too personally or get too disappointed.

I really want to give you a big hug and smooch and am missing you lots too.  I want mutual back-touching badly.  Work feels pretty shitty at the moment.
I haven't been getting any good riding in.  I also hope Mike chills about us staying close and you visiting me sometimes.  I totally agree it would be
way nicer and more appropriate for us to be able to kick it without having to sneak around and hide out.  I wish Mike would stop tripping on the past
about you but, as disappointing and frustrating as it is, it largely fits his character.  He's generally rather slow to regain trust and slow to change
in general and he rather reasonably expects most other people to be very similar to him.  Since he hangs on to many memorable examples of why you
haven't been trustworthy in our house, he combines that with his expectation that you're very unlikely to change substantially or sufficiently enough
for him to think it's worth the risk of permitting you to come around anytime soon, when he can try to forbid or restrict it.  I wish this weren't still
yet another potential problem.  As shitty as it might be, you and I could get a hotel room together instead of staying at my place.  Mike and I probably
won't stay roommates all that much longer.  Mike can also be pretty reasonable.  I think it would go a huge way toward building his trust back if you
responsibly handled your jail-time, got out and found work, a job that you liked and had kept for a while, keeping your own place, getting your own
ride, staying pretty clean and relatively stable, etc..  Like you say the runnin' crazy with nothin' is old, wanting to settle and establish a better
life, care about real love with family and cool friends again, caring for your dogs, maybe horse, and yourself most of all... if you stood totally on
your own legs for a while and got your shit together, then I think in that nice hypothetical case, it'd be much easier for Mike to change his mind and
give you another chance... and even if he was too slow or stubborn to do that, that case would still be a lot easier for me to just ignore his stupid
prohibition.  It's a big difference for me to argue it should be cool for you to stay over when you're out on bail, jobless, nearly homeless,
occasionally accompanied by what could appear to be shady out-of-town thugs (if someone conservative were to pre-judge some of your past friends and
acquaintances), etc. than for me to argue you can totally come by in your own car, after you get off work, relatively clean, stable, friendly, and
mellow because you're really getting things together and are not going to start problems or destroy shit like you used to.

I'm not saying you have to change yourself all around.  It sounds like you want to on your own again and I encourage that direction.  I'll still love
you as well as I can even if you get out and remain mostly as you have been.  I'm just also pointing out that it'd be much easier for us to be close
again if you'd get more legit and stand stronger on your own.  I agree with what you wrote me.  It is strange how things work out.  We'll see what
happens.  I love you too and will try to figure out how to send you some pictures.  It's kinda hard when almost all of mine are on computers now.

Responding to your second double-sided full-page that you wrote on Saturday, April 14th:

You asked how my last Friday night was.  I'm pretty sure I just worked late.  Nothing special.  I then got very sick over the weekend and Monday to
where I barely left my bed.  Any partying I've done recently has been kinda low-key.  Glad you've probably had fun card games with some of the girls,
that you recognize a hopefully cool girl who was there with you before, and especially stoked to hear that you like your bunkie.

Was your AA meeting attendance voluntary or mandatory?  I'm sending you a hug to encourage you.  I know you have a lot of hard emotions and deep
sadness, regret, remorse, etc. to deal with.  I hope the forum available to you is genuinely conducive to thoroughly exploring and addressing some of
your serious issues and that you're learning the right lessons at the best workable pace you can find.  I like to imagine you having strong assistance
to realize any meaningful healing, esteem, and purpose changes that you're finding yourself ready for.  Yeah, how we decide to prioritize things is
always of great importance.  I explained how I'm struggling with that above too.  The more things you appreciate, decide to value and care about, the
incredibly more complicated prioritization processes can become.  Sometimes the list is maybe so simple that it leaves you empty, bored, and
unfulfilled.  Other times, it might be so lengthy that it's overwhelming, unmanageable, and in dire need of distillation.  It's a good challenge to
try to achieve some balance, even if we fail a lot.  We've got to balance our ambitions with our limited attention spans.  Balance our expenditures
with our income.  Balance risk with reward.

I hope your reassessment of your priorities and even uncomfortable emotion and crying in your meetings provide you relief and self-confidence in your
ability to establish whatever you choose as the appropriate foundation for your life.  If you consciously deconstruct an unworkable old structure, you
can start fresh.  I'm not trying to presume to know what has been or will seem most right to you but, in trying to help, I'd guess that your past
foundations have predominantly been the deaths of Mark and your father, your survival of the terrible things done to you in 1999 and other times, and
getting high as a partial escape from the cruel stupidity, sadness, and loss we face in this world, and then also a partial punishment for guilt you
imagine you deserve.  The terrible and good parts of your past will remain with you in some fashion but taking a step back and then undertaking a
reconstruction from a different perspective allows you to change your priorities.  Maybe you'll decide that the sadness of the deaths of people near
to you (from past or future) will no longer be allowed to shape your self-image, sense of worth, ability to enjoy the moment, etc..

I can only guess and suggest.  AA can be the new essential stable foundation for some ready to build on that.  More traditional religion for others.
Family for others.  It could be work you love so much that you'll make a successful career into a critical part of your personal foundation.  Maybe
your love of animals, dogs, horses, etc. is what reminds you of who you want to be, and the greatness you're capable of, in spite of, and in the
midst of, so many other difficult circumstances changing around you.  Nevermind me if I'm getting too preachy.  I'm just trying to help you dream of
whoever you want to be and what you want to do and then just focus on those with enough determination to keep taking small steps towards them.  It's
not easy to make big changes, but at least it's possible and relatively easy by repeatedly making small ones.

I'm glad you're getting to see cute boys in some fun movies.  Hopefully shadow-fright is diminishing and it's getting easier to sleep.  Please imagine
me holding you, touching your back and hair, kissing your belly, holding your hands, and us sleeping peacefully intertwined whenever it can help your
night sadness or scaredness.  Hopefully those can be more than imaginary again soon.  Take comfort that I'm imagining the same things sometimes too.

You're welcome for my luvin' and thanks for yours too!  Yeah.  It sucks that I can't make love to you in your bunk before sleepy time.  I like getting
sweaty and then seeing you sleep calmly... like the loudest snoring angel! ;)

Glad sharps make you happy to feel so fresh and clean.  I may figure out how and when I can visit you.  It'll probably have to be on a weekend, if I
can put it together.  I'd like to do it, when the time seems right.  I would love to see you too.

So you got schoold' by a new fine ass deputy huh? ;)  I don't take it as disrespect.  I know I'm not there but it hardly matters.  You'll always think
dudes fine, hot, and sexy whenever you do.  I expect that.  You've never belonged to me either.  You are your own.  You're free to decide to respect
me however you choose.  It's cool.  We'll keep doing our things and just see what happens.

You were thinking of me in my Dickies, shades, and a wife-beater?!  I don't think I own a wife-beater.  Maybe that's somebody else's sexy hair you
were getting all wet about. ;)  Ah well.  Hopefully that other dude you've confused me with has been pretty good to you.  Maybe I'll get a wife-beater
that I can wear for you sometime, if you like that image.  It's cool.  It's not generally my style but whatever.  Change is cool whenever I'm as
relaxed and easy-going as I prefer to be.  Hopefully I'll just get dressed up for us to get undressed anyway! ;)

Yeah, I'll try to check on your mama once in a while.  I know you want her to be all right.  I guess your brother should be here already or pretty soon.
Thanks for understanding that I'm often pretty busy lately.  I have taken a lot of time to reply in depth here to you though. =)

Hopefully you're not in there too long but maybe it'd be good to try to clear up the court stuff while cleaning up other areas.  How long will you
probably be there if bail can't work out?  I'm hoping things get sorted out with Kristy and the money your mom gave for bail too.

I'll try to send books and the other stuff you've asked for to counteract your boredom when I can.

I love you too, sexy.

-Pip
