# draft e-mail from PipStuart to DotMathews (Maga):
A Great Wisecrack Diagnosis of Kayfabe Implications

Good Evening Momma,

I just watched the following 13-minute video that seems perceptive in ways likely to resonate for you too:

  HTTPS://YouTu.be/LfMe0dsxk_Q  "Kanye and The End of Reality - Wisecrack Edition"

I think it portends the imperative of weaving sufficiently entertaining narratives through the ineradicable regard for logic, reason, evidence, empiricism, priorities, hierarchies, principles, values, morals, ethics, expertise, integrity, loyalty, fortitude, valor, honor, competition, competence, criticism, satire, subversive, etc. ...
  and fostering prudent delineations for fictional realms and when encountered evolving reality must remain reliable for sustaining survival. Entertaining escapes of whatever media format should probably predominantly be well-understood as self-referring fiction or fantasy, which should not meddle haphazardly with requisite conditions for effectively improving intellectual accuracy and precision.

If hysteria, emotion, and opinion are to purely dominate certain realms to the absolute exclusion of some of the core fundamentals (possibly already indicated above), I expect those realms should be concertedly compartmentalized and contextualized according to the environmental sustenance necessity to externally preserve whatever features have been crucially erased or corrupted.

Then once such mystifying manipulations of actual elemental facts are mostly maturely and mutually protected from artfully scripted narratives steering civilization into unchallenged collapse, it should become considerably more feasible for citizens primarily grounded in steadfast stable reality to encourage, elevate, endorse, embellish, and exaggerate esoteric and eschatological extremes of entertaining or educational expressions of emotion, which evokes our instinctual engagement with elaborate narratives and their impacts on indirect implications and interpretations.

Admittedly a lot of alliterations, but hopefully still illuminating my incisive intention to preserve or increase relevant accumulations of experience and excellence, as well as auditable justice systems which facilitate maximal individual freedoms while balancing appropriate circumstantial authority and agency with consequent accountability.

I think the histrionics and related irrational ideologies, indoctrinations, intimidations, influences, and inherent impulses are pin-pointed and plucked by puppets peddling propaganda to produce prejudices and project pernicious powers between predictable portions of the pressured parties, populations, and provinces. Raging rampant, these undermine societal security which survives by holding almost unwaveringly to honesty, harmony, humane help, and heroism... yet they are historical and seem likely to remain heritable as adaptationally significant stimulating sensations, stories and scenes that spawn shifts in sentiment and susceptibilities, which can be properly celebrated and dignified more effusively once they're sufficiently recognized and subjugated to our emergent potential to propagate progressively higher orders of holistic understanding and enlightenment.

My reaction is clearly just my prolific prescriptions for pragmatic prioritization of participating principles, presented as primarily a product of my particular perspectives, but hopefully my intended reasoning has also been reformulated descriptively and is elaborated through potent terminology that shows promise to become somewhat persuasive for people to peacefully produce and provide for each other, while protecting for the proliferation of personalized paths and punctuation.

I don't think I can send this, since it is probably pretty hypo-manic and will cause you to worry, so maybe I should just ruminate on it for a while, then aggressively edit things down and consider sending less alarmingly later. Hmm. We'll see?

I love you!

Love,
-Pip
