THE PERFECT MARK 
by MITCHELL ZUCKOFF 
How a Massachusetts 
psychotherapist fell
for a Nigerian e-mail scam. 
Issue of 
2006-05-15 Posted

2006-05-08

Late one afternoon in June, 2001, John W. Worley
sat in a burgundy leather desk chair reading his e-mail. He was fifty-seven and burly, with glasses, a fringe of salt-and-pepper hair, and a bushy gray
beard. A decorated Vietnam veteran and an ordained minister, he had a busy practice as a Christian psychotherapist, and, with his wife, Barbara, was the
caretaker of a mansion on a historic estate in Groton, Massachusetts. He lived in a comfortable three-bedroom suite in the mansion, and saw patients in
a ground-floor office with walls adorned with images of Jesus and framed military medals. Barbara had been his high-school sweethearthe was the
president of his class, and she was the homecoming queenand they had four daughters and seven grandchildren, whose photos surrounded Worley at his desk.

Worley scrolled through his in-box and opened an e-mail, addressed to CEO/Owner. The writer said that his name was Captain Joshua Mbote, and he offered
an awkwardly phrased proposition: With regards to your trustworthiness and reliability, I decided to seek your assistance in transferring some money out
of South Africa into your country, for onward dispatch and investment. Mbote explained that he had been chief of security for the Congolese President
Laurent Kabila, who had secretly sent him to South Africa to buy weapons for a force of lite bodyguards. But Kabila had been assassinated before Mbote
could complete the mission. I quickly decided to stop all negotiations and divert the funds to my personal use, as it was a golden opportunity, and I
could not return to my country due to my loyalty to the government of Laurent Kabila, Mbote wrote. Now Mbote had fifty-five million American dollars, in
cash, and he needed a discreet partner with an overseas bank account. That partner, of course, would be richly rewarded. 

Mbotes offer had the hallmarks of an advance-fee fraud, a swindle whose victims are asked to provide money, information, or services in exchange for a
share of a promised fortune. Countless such e-mails, letters, and faxes are sent every year, with a broad variety of stories about how the money
supposedly became available (unclaimed estate, corrupt executive, and dying Samaritan being only a few of the most popular). Worley, who had spent his
adult life advocating self-knowledge and introspection, seemed particularly unlikely to be fooled. He had developed a psychological profiling tool
designed to reveal a persons unique needs, desires and probable behavioral responses. He promised users of the test, The individuals understanding of
self will be greatly enhanced, increasing the potential for a fulfilled and balanced life. And Worley was vigilant against temptation. Two weeks before
the e-mail arrived, he had been the keynote speaker at his eldest granddaughters graduation from the First Assembly Christian Academy in Worcester,
Massachusetts. He cautioned the students about Satan, telling them, Hes going to be trying to destroy you every inch of the way.

Still, Worley, faced with an e-mail that would, according to federal authorities, eventually lead him to join a gang of Nigerian criminals seeking to
defraud U.S. banks, didnt hesitate. A few minutes after receiving Mbotes entreaty, he replied, I can help and I am interested. His only question was how
Mbote had found him, and he seemed satisfied with the explanation: that the South African Department of Home Affairs had supplied his name. When Worley
attributed this improbable event to Gods will, Mbote elaborated on the story to say that Worleys name was one of ten that he had been given, and that it
had been pulled from a hat after much prayer by someone named Pastor Mark. (A more likely possibility is that his e-mail address was plucked from an
Internet chain letter, which he received and passed on, that promised a cash reward from Microsoft to anyone who forwarded the letter to others.) In e-
mails, phone calls, faxes, and letters during the ensuing weeks, Mbote laid out the plan: If Worley would pay up-front costs, such as fees to a storage
facility where the cash was being kept, and possibly travel to South Africa to collect the money, he would receive thirty per cent, or more than sixteen
million dollars.

Worley told Mbote that he lived his life with the utmost integrity and didnt want to jeopardize that. He also said that he couldnt fund the operation.
(Though he would report nearly a hundred and forty thousand dollars in income in 2001, he had declared personal bankruptcy in the early nineties, had
relatively little saved for retirement, and wanted to help his grandchildren through college.) No problem, Mbote answered; investors would provide up to
a hundred and fifty thousand dollars for airfare and other expenses needed to move the money to the United States, while Worley would act as middleman
and curator of the funds.

As promised, in late August, 2001, Worley received a check for forty-seven thousand five hundred dollars, purportedly from one such investor. It was
from an account belonging to the Syms Corporation, the discount-clothing chain whose slogan is An Educated Consumer Is Our Best Customer. Worley was
wary. He called the Fleet Bank in Portland, Maine, where the check had been drawn. The bank told him it was an altered duplicate of a check that Syms
had paid to the Maryland office of an international luggage manufacturer.

Every swindle is driven by a desire for easy money; its the one thing the swindler and the swindled have in common. Advance-fee fraud is an especially
durable con. In an early variation, the Spanish Prisoner Letter, which dates to the sixteenth century, scammers wrote to English gentry and pleaded for
help in freeing a fictitious wealthy countryman who was imprisoned in Spain. Today, the con usually relies on e-mail and is often called a 419 scheme,
after the anti-fraud section of the criminal code in

Nigeria, where it flourishes. (Last year, a Nigerian comic released a song that taunted Westerners with the lyrics I go chop your dollar. I go take your
money and disappear. Four-one-nine is just a game. You are the loser and I am the winner.) The scammers, who often operate in crime rings, are known as
yahoo-yahoo boys, because they frequently use free Yahoo accounts. Many of them live in a suburb of Lagos called Festac Town. Last year, one scammer in
Festac Town told the Associated Press, Now I have three cars, I have two houses, and Im not looking for a job anymore.

According to a statement posted on the Internet by the U.S. State Department, 419 schemes began to proliferate in the mid-nineteen-eighties, when a
collapse in oil prices caused severe economic upheaval in Nigeria. The populationliterate, English-speaking, and living with widespread government
corruptionfaced poverty and rising unemployment. These conditions created a culture of scammers, some of them violent. Marks are often encouraged to
travel to Nigeria or to other countries, where they fall victim to kidnapping, extortion, and, in rare cases, murder. In the nineteen-nineties, at least
fifteen foreign businessmen,

including one American, were killed after being lured to Nigeria by 419 scammers. Until recently, Nigerian officials tended to blame the marks. There
would be no 419 scam if there are no greedy, credulous and criminally-minded victims ready to reap where they did not sow, the Nigerian Embassy in
Washington said in a 2003 statement. The following year, Nuhu Ribadu, the chairman of Nigerias Economic &amp; Financial Crimes Commission, noted that
not one scammer was behind bars. Last November, however, Ribadus commission convicted two crime bosses who had enticed a Brazilian banker to spend two
hundred and forty-two million dollars of his employers money on a fictitious airport-development deal. (Prosecutions by U.S. authorities are rare; most
victims dont know the real names of their partners, and 419 swindlers are adept at covering their tracks.)

Despite Nigerias efforts, the schemes have reached epidemic proportions, according to a publication by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. The agency
received more than fifty-five thousand complaints about them last year, nearly six times as many as in 2001. The increase is due in part to the
Internet, which makes it easy for scammers to reach potential marks in wealthier countries. If we educate the public to the point where nobody falls for
it, then theyll go out of business, Eric Zahren, a spokesman for the Secret Service, the lead U.S. agency in investigating advance-fee frauds, says. The
agency estimates that 419 swindlers gross hundreds of millions of dollars a year, not including losses by victims too embarrassed to complain. In
February, the son of a prominent

California psychiatrist named Louis A. Gottschalkhe identified what turned out to be early signs of Alzheimers in Ronald Reagan after analyzing his
speechfiled suit seeking to remove his father from control over a family partnership, claiming that Gottschalk had lost more than a million dollars to
Nigerian scammers. Some victims try to pass along their losses. The former Iowa congressman Edward Mezvinsky, who had refashioned himself as an
international businessman, was caught up in a 419 scam, and during the nineteen-nineties stole from his law clients, friends, and even his mother-in-law
to cover his losses. He is serving more than six years in prison after pleading guilty to thirty-one counts of fraud.

Robert B. Reich, the former Labor Secretary, who has studied the psychology of market behavior, says, American culture is uniquely prone to the too good
to miss fallacy. Opportunity is our favorite word. What may seem reckless and feckless and hapless to people in many parts of the world seems a
justifiable risk to Americans. But appetite for risk is only part of it. A mark must be willing to pursue a fortune of questionable origin. The mind-set
was best explained by the linguist David W. Maurer in his classic 1940 book, The Big Con: As the lust for large and easy profits is fanned into a hot
flame, the mark puts all his scruples behind him. He closes out his bank account, liquidates his property, borrows from his friends, embezzles from his
employer or his clients. In the mad frenzy of cheating someone else, he is unaware of the fact that he is the real victim, carefully selected and fatted
for the kill. Thus arises the trite but none the less sage maxim: You cant cheat   an honest man. Born in the small town of Zanesville, Ohio, Worley
joined the Army after high school. He served for a year as a staff sergeant with the 101st Airborne Division in Vietnam, earning decorations that
included a Bronze Star. In 1976, after fifteen years in the military, he was convicted of driving a car for a fellow-serviceman who held up a store;
nevertheless, Worley received an honorable discharge and was later pardoned for his role in the robbery. He went to college and divinity school, and got
a Ph.D. in psychology through correspondence courses from the Carolina University of Theology, then in Mount Holly, North Carolina.
A.
Erven Burke, a Baptist pastor who has known Worley for 
nearly thirty
years, has called him a man of integrity and honesty, 
dedicated to
helping others. 

In the early nineteen-nineties, Worley developed a sixty-item questionnaire that he called Worleys Identity Discovery Profile, or W.I.D.P., which sought
to quantify a persons temperament in three areas: social and vocational, leadership, and relationships.

W.I.D.P. assigned labels to each: Introverted Sanguine, Sanguine, Phlegmatic, Melancholy, or Choleric, or a blend, such as Phlegmatic Introverted
Sanguine. People whose living patterns were primarily focussed on fulfilling a temperament need were labelled Compulsive. Over time, Worley built a
successful business selling W.I.D.P. to churches, businesses, schools, individuals, and other counsellors.

Worleys own profile was Melancholy Compulsive in the
social-vocational realm, Choleric Compulsive in leadership, 
and
Introverted Sanguine in personal relationships: inward, 
headstrong,
needy. The combination, he said later, made him ripe for 
scamming.
He had abundant time to strategize with Nigerian partners, 
he tended
to ignore warnings, and he yearned for his familys 
approval.
(Anticipating his fortune, he asked his daughters to list 
all their
debts, which he promised to pay.) But Worleys egotism 
also may have
made him think he could gain the upper hand. When Mbote 
asked him to
fly to South Africa to collect the money, he agreedbut 
only if
Mbote reimbursed him for lost wages. Worley set the price at 

thirty-five thousand dollars a week.    
After the Syms check proved false and 
Mbote
failed to send a replacement, Worley told him that their 
partnership
was over. A few days later, though, he began receiving 
e-mails from
someone claiming to be Mohammed Abacha, the eldest surviving 
son of
Nigerias late dictator General Sani Abacha, who reputedly 
stole
billions from the Nigerian treasury. Mohammed Abacha told 
Worley
that Joshua Mbote had been operating surreptitiously on the 
Abacha
familys behalf, but had bungled so badly that Abacha 
decided to
step forward. He told Worley that the story about buying 
weapons had
been a ruse to protect the Abacha family and their money, 
which, he
said, was actually hidden in Ghana. Soon Worley was put in 
touch
with someone claiming to be the Generals widow, Maryam 
Abacha. In a
torrent of phone calls and e-mails, she appealed to Worley. 
I
learned you wanted to hear from me, she wrote. Here I 
am. Help
me. In his e-mails, Worley seemed invigorated by this new 
scenario;
he apparently believed that he was on the verge of becoming 
rich
while rescuing a woman in distress. 


In late November of 2001, Worley spent several thousand 
dollars
on an attorney who specialized in international tax 
planning. The
attorney warned him against the seeming opportunity, as did 
Barbara
Worley. She knew little about her husbands project, 
as he called
it, but she didnt like it. Barbara lived a life that 
revolved, as
she put it, around God and family. In some ways, she 
still looked
to her husband for guidance, as she had when they were in 
high
school; she expressed her opinion, but deferred to his 
judgment. 


Worley dismissed these warnings; now that he had 
committed money
to the partnership, he had a vested interest. By the end of 
2001, he
was telling the Abachas that he had investigated ways to 
ship the
cash secretly and had searched a half-dozen countries for a 
bank
that would accept a huge deposit without alerting 
authorities. He
reassured them that they had chosen the right partner, and 
begged
for patience: I am a smart man and very cautious and do 
not want
anything to go wrong. He settled on the Bermuda-based 
Bank of
Butterfield, and in late January, 2002, he told Mrs. Abacha 
that he
had spent forty-three hundred dollars to open an account 
there.
There will be no trail back to the U.S. and no tax to be 
paid, he
wrote. 


Worleys partners soon persuaded him to wire more than 
eight
thousand dollars to retain a Nigerian lawyer and to cover 
the bank
fees and late fees that supposedly were the last barriers 
to the
transfer. But, after more delays and growing doubts, Worley 
told
them that he would not travel abroadthe money, they said, 
had been
moved to Amsterdamto collect the cash. They couldnt 
change his
mind, so they tried a different approach. Mrs. Abacha asked 
him for
help in claiming forty-five million dollars that she told 
him was
hidden in an account of the Federal Ministry of Aviation at 
the
Central Bank of Nigeria. It was a textbook 419 tactic. When 
Worley
doubted Mbote, he disappeared; when Worley wouldnt travel 
for one
treasure, they found another. He sent more money. 


Under this new plan, Worley allowed his partners to file 
false
documentation claiming that he was a private aviation 
contractor to
whom the Nigerian government owed forty-five million 
dollars. At the
end of February, Worley crossed another line when a patient 
named
Jennifer Morlock came to his home office for a counselling 
session.
She had barely arrived when he told her he was engaged in a 
business
venture with partners in Nigeria. Violating his 
professions code of
ethics, he asked to borrow fifteen thousand dollars. Morlock 
went
home, spoke with her husband, and agreed. By noon, Worley 
was at her
door to collect the money. The same day, he went to a nearby 
liquor
store with a Western Union outlet and wired all fifteen 
thousand
dollars to Nigeria. He soon repaid Morlock, with interest, 
by
borrowing on his credit card.  


Meanwhile, Worley was growing more and more distressed. 
The
number of correspondents was increasingat one point, he 
counted
nineand the spelling of their names kept changing. He 
complained of
receiving letters from Maram Abacha, Mariam 
Abacha, and Mrs.
Maryam S. Abacha. I would think that everyone would 
know how to
spell their own real name, he wrote testily. 
Obviously, someone
does not. When he still seemed no closer to receiving the 
payment
hed been promised, he made a bid for sympathy, falsely 
telling his
partners that he had been given a diagnosis of cancer. That 
didnt
work, so he told them that he was abandoning the project: 
To date,
I have lost nearly fifty thousand dollars chasing a rainbow 
with a
pot of gold at the end of it. I cannot go any further. It 
will take
me two years to recover from this, and I will probably be 
dead by
then. Mrs. Abachas reassurances wrung thirteen 
thousand dollars
more from Worley, but in April, 2002, he swore he was 
through,
writing, I must stop this financial torment and anguish 
and pray
that God forgives me for my pursuit of money, simply put, 
greed.

For five months, Worley didnt 
correspond with
the Nigerians. Then, in September, 2002, a fax arrived from 
someone
calling herself Mercy Nduka, who claimed to be a 
confidential
secretary at the Central Bank of Nigeria. Nduka told Worley 
that the
Aviation Ministry funds were still waiting for him, and that 
she was
secretly working with the Abacha family. She said that they 
needed
five hundred thousand dollars to bribe five Nigerian bank 
officials
who had the power to release the forty-five million; plus, 
she said,
they needed another eighty-five thousand to cover fees. 
Worley
refused to send more money, so Nduka and her boss, Usman 
Bello, said
that they would borrow it from investors. Worley would pass 
along
the investors money and then receive the fortune on 
behalf of the
Abachas, with shares going to him, Nduka, and Bello for 
their
services. 


Soon men who claimed to be investors began calling Worley 
from
New York and Washington, asking him to provide credit 
references and
requesting that he put up collateral for the loans they were 

considering making to him. He refused to offer collateral, 
but that
was never the point. The investors questions and demands 
made him
feel more secure, as though they were truly weighing whether 
to lend
him money. In late November, 2002, Worley received a check 
for
ninety-five thousand dollars, drawn on an account of the 
Robert Plan
Corporation, a Long Island-based insurance company. Without
verifying it, as he had done with the Syms check, he 
deposited it at
a branch of Fleet Bank. In fact, the check was fraudulent, 
but a
novice employee at the insurance company approved Fleets 
payment
inquiry. When the money appeared in Worleys account, 
Nduka told him
to wire eighty-five thousand dollars to a bank in Latvia, 
which he
did. He wired another thirty-eight hundred dollars when 
Bello said
that he needed to buy a Rolex watch to bribe a bank 
official.
Although the Robert Plan employee had approved the check and 
Fleet
had paid it, Worley, according to federal law, was 
responsible for
repayment. (If a fraudulent check is passed deliberately, a
depositor can face felony charges.) About a month later, the 

Nigerians sent Worley a check for some four hundred thousand 
dollars
from a Michigan marketing company. This check was real, but 
it had
been stolen and altered to make Worley the payee. When 
Worley
deposited it at a branch of Citizens Bank near his home, it 
cleared;
following Ndukas instructions, he wired the money to an 
account in
a Swiss bank. 


In the meantime, the Nigerians had ensnared the wife of a 

Mississippi car dealer, a woman named Marcia Cartwright. In 
October,
2002, she had received a 419 e-mail from a man saying he was 

desperate to get his money out of Nigeria. Two months later, 

Cartwright received a check made out to her for nearly a 
hundred and
nine thousand dollars, drawn on the account of a Texas 
advertising
firm, and deposited it at the Farmers &amp; Merchants Bank 
of
Booneville, Mississippi. It cleared, and, on orders from 
Nigeria,
she sent Worley a cashiers check for a hundred and six 
thousand
dollars, keeping the remainder for herself. He deposited the 
money
in his Citizens account on January 15, 2003. The next day, 
he wired
a hundred thousand dollars to the Swiss account. 


Worley told Nduka and Bello that he was certain they now 
had more
than enough to bribe the bankers and cover other expenses. 
Nduka,
ever polite, said that they were not quite there. She 
sympathized
with his frustration, and Worley promised to be patient. She 
asked
for another six thousand dollarsthe balance of 
Cartwrights
cashiers checkto bribe the telex operators who would 
execute the
transfer. Worley hesitated, but soon sent that money, too. 
Finally,
Nduka told him what he longed to hear: All is set for the 
final
release of your fund. 


That day, the president of the Farmers &amp; Merchants 
Bank
learned that the check Marcia Cartwright had deposited a 
month
earlier had been returned as fraudulent. Bank officials 
called
federal and state authorities, and Citizens Bank, where 
Worley had
deposited Cartwrights cashiers check, was also 
notified. An
investigator for Citizens, a former police lieutenant named 
Michael
Raymond, told Worley what had happened and said that he was
investigating potentially fraudulent activity. Worley sent 
frantic
e-mails and made repeated calls to Nigeria, begging for a
replacement check. Nduka answered with bad news: Bello had 
been
attacked by robbers and was comatose. But, she wrote, I 
have
reached an agreement with them for your fund to be released 
as
planned on Friday. All she needed was a thousand dollars 
to bribe
another telex operator. 


Worley seemed on the verge of panicking. If you are my 
friend,
then make it happen tomorrow, he pleaded. Why are you 
badgering me
with this $1,000? I have gone as far as I will go with this. 
I am
desperate and have nothing else to say at this time. I am
emotionally, spiritually, and financially drained. Nduka 
answered
humbly, calling herself an ordinary woman who 
struggled on four
hundred dollars a month. Worley responded that Nduka had 
touched my
heart. He wired the thousand dollars on January 30, 
2003. 


The next day, Raymond told Worley that the other check he 
had
deposited at Citizens, the check from Michigan for four 
hundred
thousand dollars, was also phony. Worley knew what that 
meant, and,
according to Raymond, disclosed his suspicion that the 
Robert Plan
check was probably fake, too. When Worley got off the phone 
with
Raymond, he was enraged. I hate being taken advantage of 
by you
evil bastards, he wrote to Nduka. This is all lies? 
He went on,
Your day will come that you will be judged by God, and so 
will I.
And I am ashamed, and shamed, and an embarrassment to my 
family, who
are so precious and Godly people. What a terrible model of a 

Christian that I am. Thoughts of suicide are filling my 
mind, and I
am full of rage at you despicable people. I hate living 
right now,
and I want to die. My whole life is falling apart, my 
family, my
ministry, my reputation and all that I have worked for all 
my life.
Dear God, help me. I am so frightened.   
In May, 2005, Worley went on trial in 
U.S.
District Court in Boston on charges of bank fraud, money 
laundering,
and possession of counterfeit checks. Worleys overseas
correspondents, whose real identities he never knew, 
disappeared,
and were never located or charged. With them went more than 
forty
thousand dollars of Worleys money and nearly six hundred 
thousand
dollars from the checks. Including credit-card interest,
money-wiring fees, long-distance telephone charges, and the 
tax
lawyers bills, Worleys losses may have been closer to 
eighty
thousand dollars. 


The prosecutor, an Assistant U.S. Attorney named Nadine
Pellegrini, urged the jury to reject suggestions that Worley 
had
simply been scammed. At best, she said, Worley got in 
over his
head. Pellegrini portrayed Worley as the puppeteer, not 
the puppet,
and said that he knowingly passed bad checks, in the belief 
that he
was entering into a mutually beneficial arrangement. 
She focussed
on Worleys recognition at various points that he was 
dealing with
liars, and said that he displayed willful blindness by 
ignoring
the warning signs of their criminality and his own. 
Pellegrini said
that Worleys claims of innocence were undermined by 
consistent bad
conductlying to his wife, borrowing from a patient, 
plotting to
avoid taxes, posing as an aviation contractor, claiming to 
have
cancer, and agreeing to bribe Nigerian bank officials. She 
was
unsparing during her cross-examination. So you dont 
have any
integrity either, do you, Dr. Worley? she asked. He 
answered, No,
I dont. 


Ladies and gentlemen, she told the jury, its 
clear John
Worley understands behavior of people and motivation of 
people, and
he could and he can manipulate both behavior and reaction. . 
. .
There is only one story here, and thats the story of John 
Worleys
greed.  


Worleys lawyer, a former prosecutor named Thomas 
Hoopes, cast
him as a childlike man who was tricked by sophisticated con 
artists
into a check-cashing scheme. Hoopes stressed that Fleet and 
Citizens
had approved payment on the checks, which, he said, 
reasonably led
Worley to believe they were legitimate. He urged the jury to 
focus
on the final thousand dollars that Worley had sent after he 
knew an
investigation was under waythis was evidence, he said, of 
Worleys
gullibility. He likened Worley to Marcia Cartwright, whom 
the
government viewed as a victim despite her also having passed 
a bad
check. (Cartwright made partial restitution, testified for 
the
prosecution, and was not charged.) Mostly, Hoopes urged the 
jury to
view Worleys acts as foolish, not criminal. Hoopes 
emphasized that
Worley had lost heavily in the scam. Its not willful 
blindness,
Hoopes said. It is blind trust. 


In addition to witness testimony and lawyers 
arguments, the jury
was given hundreds of e-mails between Worley and the 
Nigerians which
told a story of their own, about a man transformed by his 
pursuit of
riches. Reading the e-mails, in which Worley displays both 
cunning
and credulousnesssometimes in the same messageit is 
clear that the
Nigerians were able to take advantage of his religious 
convictions,
his stubbornness, and his desire to be a hero to Mrs. Abacha 
and to
his family. Patiently and persistently, the Nigerians turned 

Worleys skepticism into suspension of disbelief, to the 
point where
he seemed to worry that they might not trust  him . They made Worley the perfect 
mark. 


The trial took six days, and the jury found Worley guilty 
on all
counts. On February 15th, Worley, now sixty-two, returned to 
the
federal courthouse at the edge of Boston Harbor to face 
sentencing.
Accompanied by more than three dozen family members and 
friends, he
arrived wearing a charcoal suit with a support-the-troops 
pin on the
lapel. U.S. District Judge George OToole, Jr., 
acknowledging the
ordeal that Worley had been through, said that he was 
nevertheless
bound by the jurys finding. He sentenced Worley to two 
years in
prison, plus restitution of nearly six hundred thousand 
dollars, and
gave him five weeks to turn himself in. Outside the 
courtroom,
Barbara Worley, a stout woman with blond hair, said they 
would
appeal. (They eventually decided not to.) My husband is 
the victim
here, she said. Its an atrocity.   
One morning a week later, I drove past 
acres of
winter-brown fields to the Worleys large, blue-gray 
house, which
was owned by a trust created by the Lawrence family, one of
Massachusettss nineteenth-century industrial dynasties. 
(The
Worleys, looking for an inexpensive place to live after John 
left
the Army, believe that divine guidance delivered them to the 

Lawrences, who needed the home restored and overseen.) 
Barbara, in a
white bathrobe, let me in, saying she thought the meeting 
had been
rescheduled. The house was dark, and the hallways were 
filled with
packing boxes: Worley was preparing for prison, and Barbara 
was
moving to a small house in a nearby town. 


Barbara led the way upstairs to a living room with a 
brass plaque
on the door. As for me and my house, we will serve the 
Lord, it
read. Worley entered, wearing a red-white-and-blue robe with 
an
eagle on the back. He sat in a green leather chair, and fed 
treats
to Pancake, the family cat. He seemed stunned by his 
misadventures
of the past five years. The communications that I had 
with those
people were so convincing that I really believed that they 
were
real, they were true, he said. I would question them 
and they
would come back with a response that was adequate to cover 
my
concerns each and every time. Despite everything, he 
insisted that
he still believed he had been dealing with the real Maryam 
and
Mohammed Abacha. I think they were legitimately trying to 
use me
and my resources to get their funds out of Nigeria into a 
safe place
where they could have access to them, he said. Worley 
wasnt sure
whom to blame for the bad checks, though Nduka was suspect. 
Somehow
there was a buyoff, a payoff, or something that went on 
there, and
then it got switched to the point where I was then dealing 
with
fraudsters, he said.  


When I asked Worley what he wished he had done 
differently, he
didnt answer directly. Instead, he spoke about hoping 
that the
Abachas would get back in touch with him. However, before 
they could
resume work on the multimillion-dollar transfer, he expected 
them to
send the six hundred thousand dollars that he needs for 
restitution.



What if they sent you a check? Barbara demanded. 
Would you put
it in the bank to see if it cleared again? 


Yeah. 


John! she said.  


I dont know, Worley said finally, sounding 
defeated. I have
to have time to think about what I would do in that 
situation. 


My husband is nave, she explained to me. He 
trusts
people. 


A month later, moments after dropping off Worley at a 
federal
prison in Pennsylvania, Barbara called me in tears. They 
knew they
couldnt go after the Nigerians, so they just get the 
person they
can reach. Theyre trying to stop people in America from 
getting
involved in it by making an example of my husband, she 
said. Why
dont they assign an F.B.I. agent to go after the people 
who scammed
my husband? Wheres the justice?   
An enduring trait of Nigerian letter
scammersindeed, of most con artistsis their reluctance 
to walk
away from a mark before his resources are exhausted. On 
February 5,
2003, several days after the checks were revealed as phony, 
after
Worley was under siege by investigators, after his bank 
account had
been frozen, after he had called his partners evil 
bastards,
Worley received one more e-mail from Mercy Nduka. 


I am quite sympathetic about all your predicaments, 
she wrote,
but the truth is that we are at the final step and I am 
not willing
to let go, especially with all of these amounts of money 
that you
say that you have to pay back. She needed just one more 
thing from
Worley and the millions would be theirs: another three 
thousand
dollars. 


You have to trust somebody at times like this, she 
wrote. I am
waiting your response. 
