heh...  I guess, in some respects, I don't care what others find demeaning or insulting.  I find a huge and crucial distinction between offended sensibilities and physical harm.  I'd rather let every person be disrespected incessantly but have their bodies left entirely unmolested and unrestrained.

If people are trampled, obviously there is physical harm.  If a spouse is beaten, obviously there is physical harm.  If racial prejudice precipitates hate-crimes of violence, obvious harm.  If people shoot (or governments bomb) each other over disagreements, obvious again.

Now if people feel like their honor has been disrespected by words or because someone made a nasty face at them, created a vulgar hand-sign, spoke profanity or blasphemy, etc. I say let the offended cry about it and stew in their own silly offendedness.  If, someday, the only harm humanity must endure is verbal and signaled insult of each other and non-violent discrimination, I would be most glad.  Let's worry about establishing some complicatedly inclusively global "polite" and "respectful" customs then... but we've got bigger fish-to-fry at present.

My belief in equality is that people should not murder, rape, enslave, steal from, or physically injure each other.  My "political correctness" advocacy basically stops there.  Even if I personally believe that each person's soul has the same value and I decide to convey that in thought, word, and action as well as I can, I would not require the same from others.  I think people who are easily offended by ideas and words should mature and awaken to the complex reality of our diverse world... or they should just stay sheltered in their small simple-minded communities and not venture out trying to make the rest of the world as ridiculously primitive as they are.

I'd prefer there be no discrimination or racism (even if they could someday be confined to exclusively non-violent manifestations) but I'd rather not waste time worrying about their non-violent sides now when physical harm is still so prevalent.

> "In the U.S., people are too busy demanding
> diversity, which means acceptance of different
> customs, to have any idea of what polite
> behavior is and what some group will consider
> demeaning or insulting. Without a uniform and
> established culture, there is no agreement on
> what is polite and what is demeaning."

I have a few things to say about this.

Yeah, maybe some people "demand" diversity but I'd think most United Statesians simply acknowledge it as fact.  I'm not even sure what "demanding diversity" is.  Maybe it's like Affirmative Action where "diversity" is enforced through laws and rules to maintain quotas of minority representation?  Anyway, if diversity is simply a fact rather than something that most people could demand, then it doesn't matter if the majority has any idea what "polite" behavior is for every variant of every foreign culture.  It should also be obvious that, even if it were to matter, it's a tall order to expect citizens of the most diverse nation to be well-versed on every foreign culture too when they often don't even know which states border their own.  So maybe some uptight people (who are themselves easily offended) suffer a great deal of mental anguish at the thought or sight of established customs or cultures being insulted.  Boo hoo!

We do have a uniform and established global culture.  The uniformity is through the fact that our members are all diverse and the established culture will continue to evolve.  The agreement is that we are all polite when we don't intentionally inflict each other physically.  Let's address and establish that first and then work our way up to coddling fragile emotional reactionism later.  How's that for sensibility?  Have I offended? ;)

Here's my motto on the subject:  "Sticks and stones (and bullets and bombs) may break my bones (or extinguish my life), but words will only hurt me if shouted incredibly loudly."  I can't wait until the only thing we hurt is each others feelings through harsh words.

Sincerely,
-Pip
http://PipForPresident.Org

p.s.  Where was this "American" (who visited Nippon) from?  Argentina?  Canada?  Panama?  There are a few different Americas and more Americans who live outside the United States than those within.

On 7/22/06, fchooper@cybertron.com <fchooper@cybertron.com> wrote:
> I recently read a series of articles about an
> American's trip to Japan.  The articles elicited
> a number of reader comments, of which I found
> the following the most interesting:
> 
> "I have seen Japanese civility at its best and
> have also seen pushing, shoving, trampling
> Japanese at airports. Crashing into lines
> of people like a charging herd and knocking
> down elderly and crippled people cannot be
> called civil, and I do not excuse the Japanese
> because the actions were in foreign airports
> or that the charging of lines was in Osaka.
> In Osaka, the police intervened and redirected
> the charging Japanese group.
> 
> "In the U.S., people are too busy demanding
> diversity, which means acceptance of different
> customs, to have any idea of what polite
> behavior is and what some group will consider
> demeaning or insulting. Without a uniform and
> established culture, there is no agreement on
> what is polite and what is demeaning."
> W. B.
> Anderson County, SC
> 
> antiM
