AAA

Ms. Profera

Please forward this to the Arbitrator. I will forward to Respondent.

As an attorney and Arbitrator interested in Ethics, I was struck by this
exchange on  CHARACTER COUNTS Radio 1070 , News Radio KNX this week. I
couldn't get the reprint in time, or would have attached it as a
document.

EMMETT AND INTEGRITY 

I guess I got Emmett's goat. He was offended by my contention that a
young person should tell an employer the truth even if it would
jeopardize chances of being hired or retained. 

``In the REAL world,'' according to Emmett, ``if you go into a job
stating that you may leave to go to grad school, you may not get the
job.'' For that matter, he added, a college student seeking only a
summer job should lie about his intentions because chances are he won't
get the job if he's honest. Emmett spoke from experience. When he really
needed a job with benefits and consistent pay he applied for a position
well below his qualifications. He was asked, ``How long do you envision
yourself in this position?'' He regrets telling the truth and resents
the employer who didn't hire him because they wanted someone who saw the
job as a career. 

Emmett reflects an I-deserve-it attitude that goes like this: ``Whatever
I want, I need. Whatever I need, I deserve. Whatever I deserve, I have a
right to have and it's okay to do whatever I have to do to get it.'' 

How can we convince the Emmetts of the world that life does not revolve
around their wants and needs, that ethical principles like honesty,
fairness and respect are not rules of convenience? What will it take to
get Emmett to understand that employers have wants and needs too. Is it
absurdly foolish or morally wrong that some employers think that
commitment and potential longevity, or for that that matter integrity,
are legitimate job qualifications? 

We can't always reconcile competing wants so we need ethics to set the
ground rules. Everyone is entitled to pursue his or her own interests
but only in an honorable way. 

Emmett's grand conclusion was: ``Morals are great but you can't live on
morals alone.'' Well, Emmett, if you really want to see employers run,
tell them that during your next job interview. 

For KNX 1070, this is Michael Josephson reminding you that character
counts. 

