Written by: Philip Stuart           Date: Monday, February 5th, 2001
Re: Mr. Fish vs. Stuart

Lisa Profera:
    Please forward a copy of these documents to Mr. Combs && Mr. Fish.
There should remain one for the AAA's own records.


    This document describes why I did not receive the revised complaint
and then proceeds to attempt to better explain the scenario which
precipitated this dispute and mention relevant events which are
descriptive of the problem.

I would like to make clear why I was unable to possess Mr. Fish's
revised complaint.
  I am currently employed by an ASP (Application Service Provider) in
Santa Ana.  I am a lead programmer there && am responsible to develop
several highly functional systems with the utmost diligence.  I
regularly sleep in my office.  I have an air mattress, pillow, blanket,
a change of clothes, && toiletries in the corner of my office.  It is
not uncommon for me to sleep more nights at my office than I do in my
apartment.  I typically work between 50 && 80 hours each week (not
including time sleeping at the office).  They provide me with food,
drinks, && a fast dedicated internet connection (T1 line).  I have
little reason to leave the office.
  I have never had any reason to deal with certified mail before either
and therefore have had no context by which to understand it's abnormal
delivery mechanism.  When I would return home after several days in the
office, I would occassionally find a pink slip notifying me of a failed
delivery attempt along with my bills.  I wrongly assumed that the postal
carrier would attempt to deliver such mail each day and that I would
eventually be home to sign for it.
  Last Friday (Feb. 2nd), I received Mr. Fish's January 29th letter
purporting that I had already received his new complaints.  I was on my
way to Big Bear when I opened this letter on Friday afternoon since my
fraternity (AEPi) initiated our Fall/Winter pledge class this past
weekend.  I returned yesterday (Sunday Feb. 4th) but the post office was
closed.  When I revisited the post office today, they had nothing for
me.  It seems that the complaint has been returned to the sender.  I had
no intention of neglecting my responsibility in this matter which is why
I'm making an effort to respond by February 7th regardless.  I don't
want this silliness to go on any longer either.
  Hopefully this explains why I may be unable to respond directly to any
specific points Mr. Fish has decided to bring up.

  I have attempted to format the concatenated emails in preparation for
a massive printing but the size was still prohibitive so I have decided
to simply post them to my webserver since it will be easily visible &&
searchable from there.  I'm sure this is unconventional && may possibly
nullify my ability to utilize anything therein to further my case but I
don't seem to have another choice so I'm hoping that the arbitrator of
this case can accept this document as evidence since it will save much
paper, postage, && time (all of which are scarce for me).  This document
can be seen at http://BinQ.org/800tele/lenemail.txt
  It is currently secured by obscurity.  Nobody knows about it (except
us) and there are no hyperlinks referring to it so no crawler can find
it.  If this is insufficient, at the arbitrator's request, I will be
glad to password protect or remove it.
  It may be feasible to restore them to separate files so that they can
be more easily referred to.  I will try to do that tonight after work.
If this can be done, I will place an index file as the default loading
page at the URL http://BinQ.org/800tele/  so please check there if the
above text file is unavailable.  It will have been supplanted by myriad
individual emails.
  Basically the emails demonstrate my constant diligence.  They catalog
some evidence of my productivity but there is also a lot of
demonstratable source code on Mr. Fish's server which speaks much
further.  I don't know how to introduce that as proof but I guess I can
explain that I developed a thorough system for embedding database
queries securely from an arbitrarily complex website.  I established
several administrative mechanisms as well as user and group level
permissions for different security levels among data elements or
authority to perform certain manipulative functions with the database.
The whole system integrates smoothly with traditional HTML web-based
submit forms.  It was built hierarchically on top of Perl && MySQL from
scratch.  I installed and configured the webserver and administrated it
throughout development.  Constant hardware troubles arose which were
arduous && stressful to resolve.
  Something else that is probably relevant is the fact that I had never
done contract work before.  I had only been employed with a salary
before Mr. Fish.  I have had no experience with contracts or the
legality of such practices.  I foolishly assumed that I would be paid
fairly as long as I worked hard.  In hindsight, I must have been easy
pickings for someone hoping to take advantage of my abilities without
reasonable compensation.  Just the fact that he paid me less than $5000
for 12 weeks of work and that he now sees fit to attempt to win a
$100,000 award for all of this is a perfect example of his rational
decision-making deficit.  Initially, the claim was $10k.  Then it was
raised several times as he reassessed his damages until he finally
arrived at $100k.  I wouldn't be surprised if his new claim were for
$1Million.  The whole exercise is asinine.  I don't own anything
valuable other than my computers which are my trade.  I don't think he
could win my computers since they are my livelihood.  I don't have any
savings or more than a couple hundred dollars in my bank account.  I'd
have to declare bankruptcy and he wouldn't get anything anyway.  This
all seems to be a horrible folly on his behalf.  I was suckered into it
myself and it has wasted far too much of my time already but I've got my
whole life ahead of me.  I sure am glad I get an opportunity to lern
from this situation so early on.
  The details have grown humorous to me.  Mr. Fish emails me asking me
to give him his own password to his server.  How could I possibly know
it?  He also asks for the root password which he himself chose.  He
writes letters to point out how little respect I have for the AAA.
Everything I do is "stalling" or "playing games".  He incessantly
accused me of the same when I worked for him (even during my most
productive times).  Mr. Fish is an unhappy man.  There is no way to live
up to his expectations.  There is no way to fulfill his requirements.
He scares away all his help.  He had an employee (a nice woman I had the
priviledge of meeting) named Anita who he yelled at constantly.  He
brought her to tears both of the two days she could stand to work for
him.  He said something to the effect of "This task would take a normal
person an hour so, considering your intelligence, I'll expect it done in
four hours" to her face while I was there.  He is a terrible man to work
for.  I couldn't help but love the irony in his mail which exaggerated
my exaggeration.  It was poetic.  I was thoroughly tempted to duplicate
his letter verbatim including his own "major inconsistenly", "blatant
untruth" or "gross exaggeration" quotes etc.  125 is not quite a '100
percent "exaggeration"' of the actual '66 pages' as he exaggerates
himself.  I've grown cynical towards this whole situation because it
never gets any less ridiculous.  I know it may be a serious matter so
I've tried to be respectful && mature && treat it as such.  Hopefully
this is visible.
  Anyway, the emails describe how upset Mr. Fish would get when he
couldn't reach me by telephone for a day or two.  He would accuse me of
absurd things just because he'd get my answering machine for several
hours.  I had never agreed to be reachable by phone.  He constantly
insulted && berated me and my accomplishments.  He insulted my religious
commitments and basically ensured that I would despise his intrusive
micro-management && under-appreciation of my efforts.  It was a
discouraging ordeal to say the least.  He constantly threatened me which
was quite intimidating since I had no other income && was reliant on his
mercy for months to cover my rent and bills.  I will be very pleased to
never have to deal with such a bitter old man again.  I haven't had
difficulty finding two companies since who have appreciated me
substantially.  Speaking of which, I must get to work.  I hope all of
this is enough to demonstrate my intentions, describe my diligence, &&
explain my purported negligence.  Email is (naturally) the best way to
reach me.  I check my PipTigger@Yahoo.com account at least every 3 days.
I normally check it several times daily though.  I'm sorry if the
certified mail mixup caused unnecessary trouble.  I have written
everything above to respond to what I imagine the revised complaint
would be even though I haven't received it yet.  Thanks for your time.
TTFN.

-Philip "PipTigger" Stuart

