
  I know an additional response wasn't asked for but I feel it's quite 
necessary to address Mr. Fish's latest submissions.  I will try to be 
brief because I was really hoping that I could already be done with the 
all the explanations but I cannot permit Mr. Fish's latest falsehoods to
go unchallenged.
  1) Regarding the claimed entirely useless??quote here?? inaccessible code:
    a. All of it resides on his server's harddrive, his personal 
        workstation's harddrive, && his lawyer's harddrive (presumably 
        since I emailed the documented archive to him repeatedly).
    b. Mr. Fish chose the `root` password for the server himself.  After
        doing so, he told me what it was so that I could utilize it for
        development.  I never changed it.  I memorized it then.  I don't
        happen to remember it any longer (nor where I might have it 
        written).  This password is not even necessary to access any of 
        the code I developed.
    c. Mr. Fish still should have his own personal account on the server 
        (which he also chose all the pertinant information for).  His 
        personal account is sufficient to read, copy, && modify all the 
        code on his server.
    d. Since he has the server's hard drive in his direct possession, he 
        can easily utilize any normal Linux boot-disk (like the one that 
        came with his RedHat distribution) && directly access the entire 
        harddrive volume.  Every boot-disk I have ever used has had a 
        "rescue" option for such a purpose.
     It is a bold-faced lie to say that I have somehow witheld the code 
      from Mr. Fish.  It is very accessible to him && it always has been.
  2) Regarding the speculation about my earnings && my purported 
      dishonesty:
    a. I had never done contract work before I met Mr. Fish.
    b. I did not simultaneously work on other contracts while I worked on
        800Telephone (though it shouldn't have been illegal if I had done
        so).
    c. I have not been paid for consulting or contract-work since I dealt 
        with Mr. Fish.  I was not an experienced mature professional 
        contract programmer as he likes to claim.
    d. I have not updated my Guru profile since I left TelcoBid.com.  I 
        plan to do so once this case is concluded.
    e. I did unintentionally misrepresent the duration of my "independent"
        status since I have worked indepedently since I stopped attending 
        the University of California at Irvine.
    f. TelcoBid.com fell apart before I was hired.  My programming enabled 
        it to have a protracted appeal to investors but a terribly poor 
        business model inevitably overcame the available venture capital 
        && greedy management tactics scared all the competent help away.
    g. Other than while working for Mr. Fish, I have enjoyed stable 
        employment through salaried positions everywhere I have worked 
        (except for a special agreement with my close relative's company 
        [BCI Group] where I was paid $3k each month for almost 3 months 
        for completing 3 substantial tasks).
    h. I was paid a 50k / year salary as of last week when MindFire && I 
        mutually agreed that I was no longer useful towards the new 
        direction they have decided to persue.  I did not quit && I was 
        not fired.  I left on very good terms && may well return should 
        they decide to develop new products in the future rather than 
        predominantly support existing clients && resell their existing 
        products as they plan to do for now.
    i. I am prepared to open up all of my bank records.  I have nothing 
        to hide.  I have not intentionally falsified anything.  I also 
        have not fabricated anything for this arbitration process.
    j. As I stated before, I do not have any savings nor do I own anything 
        of great value (ie. worth more than $5k).  I normally have less 
        than $1500 in my checking account as the extent of my financial 
        resources.
    k. I did not then && do not now, have a lawyer.
    l. I did not exhaustively review the original contract.  I also did 
        not "demand" that contract without any modifications as written 
        for another programmer.
    m. I did not choose OpenMerchant.
    n. I was previously unable to afford the expense of the arbitration
        costs.  I am now capable of paying the latest arbitration 
        expenses since my final checks from MindFire have inflated my 
        balance (even if temporarily).  I have also just landed a 
        new job which pays 40k / year so my financial situation is not 
        likely to be much better than it has been as of late.  I'm 
        not sure that I should have to pay since I have only defended 
        myself (ie. I make no counter-claim) && by Mr. Fish's own 
        admission, "[I] never came anywhere close to performing under the 
        terms of the agreement, not even the first week".  I was never 
        capable of fulfilling the original contract which contained the 
        arbitration clause.  Mr. Fish paid me, regardless of my 
        incapacity so that he could control me since I had living 
        expenses that I could not otherwise afford.
    o. I have been busy since then paying the same expenses.  I have not 
        intended to "ignore the legal process".  I have responded as 
        promptly && directly as I am able (without legal assistance).
  3) Regarding Mr. Fish's false accusations:
    a. I did provide documentation for the software I wrote.
    b. Mr. Fish bought me two books (not ten) which I have not returned 
        (but am willing to).
    c. Mr. Fish did not buy my cable modem or pay for my access bills or 
        ever absorb any of the hardware expenses I was forced to endure 
        when I experienced a catastrophic harddisk controller failure 
        which incapacitated my development machine.
    d. Mr. Fish might have met me at a restaurant five or six times over 
        the three months that we dealt with each other.  One of the 
        times, he suggested that I would have to pay for our meals 
        sometimes.  Toward the end of the development effort, Mr. Fish 
        chose to meet at an expensive restaurant (with his lawyer) to 
        persuade me to finish the project quickly so that I would not 
        have to face the litigation he was preparing.  I ordered 
        somewhat extravagantly since I was not being paid enough to 
        afford my bills by that time.  I doubt he ever took me out to 
        eat twice in a single week as he claims to have done every week.
        
  I know it all boils down to his word versus mine && I feel I may be at 
a great disadvantage since Mr. Fish has lied so consistently while I have 
adhered to the truth.  He has quoted me out of context whenever it has 
suited him.  Many other falsehoods were presented by Mr. Fish that hardly 
seem worth arguing.  Hopefully it is apparent that my "assets and earning 
power" are not as voluminous as Mr. Fish had hoped && they have not been 
lied about.  I have been as direct && honest as I could be.  I have not 
tried to hide anything.  If there is any information that can help us to 
be done with this once && for all, I am willing to produce any records I 
have.  I have done this as well as I could from the outset.  That's why 
this all seems so pointless to me.  It should also be apparent that I've 
never dealt with this sort of business before && that I don't have money 
bags to hand over because of some imagined damage I mysteriously caused.  
I have not sabotaged any of Mr. Fish's hardware or software.  If I have 
told other people about how he has treated me, it was only because I did 
not want to see other people manipulated && abused as I was.  I 
certainly earned at least the $5k I was paid.  I should not be held 
responsible for Mr. Fish's office or Business Plans or Accountants or 
server hardware or new programming expenses.  None of them have hinged 
on me or if they have, it is Mr. Fish's fault, not mine.
  Something else that seems particularly relevant is the projected 
expense of hiring "a new group to start from scratch in an expedited time 
frame", "new programmers", && "a new programming staff" that Mr. Fish has 
referred to as the most expensive damage I have caused.  This valuation of
the associated cost of development of the system Mr. Fish is asking for has 
yielded an average quotation of $75k.  Clearly multiple teams of 
programmers have been contacted since this project was (&& is) no small 
task.  To expect that a single early-twenties programmer could simply 
accomplish this same task for less than 1/7th of the average quoted price 
as calculated by experienced professional contracting firms (presumably) 
in an equivalent timeframe is obviously unreasonable && heartily bolsters 
my argument that I could not have possibly met Mr. Fish's expectations.
  I'm not even sure what is happening anymore.  I think I have 
demonstrated that I was incapable of completing the contract as written.  
This was visible sometime between the first && third weeks of this twelve-
week effort.  Clearly, I was still being paid for months after this 
"breach" && the situation only got worse as Mr. Fish && I both seem to 
attest to.  Our initial agreement must have deteriorated quickly.  I 
contend that we fundamentally altered the original agreement when we 
verbally agreed to not utilize OpenMerchant (since I couldn't get it 
to work).  Apparently Mr. Fish argues that I didn't even come close to 
fulfilling the first (or any following) week's deliverables according to 
the contract.  Either way, I couldn't complete even the beginnings of the 
contract on time.  The time necessary for software development (of any 
kind) routinely exceeds even the most careful && experienced projections.  
I was not experienced but was as careful as I could be under the 
financial pressures I was facing.  It's all pretty simple.  I worked as 
hard as I could to be paid as much as I could until I was unable to 
afford even my basic living expenses.  I could not depend upon my 
roommates to cover my share of our bills for very long since they are all 
students who work part-time if at all.  I had to find a normal job where 
I would be able to survive.  Mr. Fish && I agreed to change our original 
agreement (which I was incapable of adequately performing).  I did not 
have a better option than to try to rewrite OpenMerchant's core 
functionality myself since I could not benefit from the system as it was 
then (even if others were able to utilize it).  I would have continued 
to work on 800Telephone if Mr. Fish would have ongoingly paid me enough 
to live.  Since he did not, I was unable to continue developing software 
for him.  Now I don't like him anymore && don't want to deal with him 
ever again.  That's it.  I'm convinced that he is crazy && cruel.  Please 
let me know if there's any more information or clarification I could 
provide that would be helpful in further evaluating this case.  Thank 
you.

-Pip Stuart

p.s. I'm not sure how the hazy issue of Point-to-Point (P2P) intellectual
property (as it pertains to the Napster case) is actually precedent or 
even germain in the context of the present case but it might be 
interesting to be enlightened if it somehow can be shown to be.  Maybe 
it's an analogy suggesting that Old/obsolete/abusive versus 
Young/clever/defiant-when-mistreated is an ongoing battle.  I could see 
that.
p.p.s. I'm sorry I did not type in all capital letters, underline or 
boldface my text above.  It seems that gratuitous use of these 
mechanisms is necessary for Mr. Fish to recognize emphasis.  Hopefully 
plain text can be descriptive enough for the purpose of plainly 
addressing each point.
p.p.p.s. I do happen to enjoy playing video games.  I also enjoy 
software development.  I do each quite a bit.  Hopefully neither 
is sufficient proof of criminal or amoral underpinnings which 
necessarily lead to a conviction in any disputable matter.  TTFN.