Order    Confirmation: 163547998   Thank you! Your order is complete.
  Your tickets will be available at the gate before the performance.
Be sure to bring your: photo ID, credit card used, and order number.
Order         Details: Mythcon V, Pabst Parking AddOn for 9/22/18 after 5:00PM
  PABST THEATER PARKING INSTRUCTIONS
CPS Plaza East Parking Pavilion (330 E. Wells St.)
  Enter on Broadway
Retain Entry Ticket Received When Entering Structure
  GOOD FOR 6 HOURS OF PARKING
  VALID ONLY AFTER 5 PM SEVEN DAYS A WEEK
Upon Leaving; First Deposit Entry Ticket (Single Black Stripe)
  Second, Deposit Parking Ticket With ORANGE Stripe

Pabst Theater Box Office (414) 286-3205 M-F 12-6:30pm
  Enter on Broadway between Wells & Kilbourn
!!Warning!! Structure is approximately one (1) block away from the Pabst.
  Please print this instruction page and bring with you to the event.

Please remember ticket(s) CANNOT be resold for above face value. Reselling
 ticket(s) above face value is a violation of terms and may result in the
 revocation of said ticket(s). The box office reserves the right to switch
 any tickets, regardless of the chosen delivery method, to Will Call pickup.
You will receive an e-mail notification if your ticket order is switched to
 will call pick-up. Please call 414-286-3205 for questions or concerns.

Bag Policy and Prohibited Items: Small purses (13"W x 4"D x 9"H and smaller)
 are allowed into the theater and are subject to search. All other bags
 including backpacks and oversize purses are strictly prohibited and bag
 checks are not available at Pabst/Riverside/Turner Hall/Colectivo.
Items that are prohibited at all of the venues include: weapons, laser pens,
 signs, banners, oversized bags and backpacks, outside food and beverage,
 including water, cans, bottles, alcohol, drugs, professional audio
 recording devices (unless approved by artist), and any professional
 photography equipment. We are not responsible for any personal property
 that is lost, stolen, or damaged.

If you have any questions with your order, please contact
 Etix Customer Care.
 Etix Home | Reprint Tickets | Sell tickets with Etix | Help / FAQ |
  Privacy Policy | Ticket Purchase Terms and Conditions © 2018,
 Etix, Inc. All rights reserved. 
