# KBFL7Unc:~/dox/Ppl/unc.txt crE8d by PipStuart <Pip@CPAN.Org> as a draft letter to my 7 Uncles (Bruce,Tony,Dan, Kip,Pat,Billy, && Joey) and 1 Brother (Tim);
Dear Uncles :                                                  (Bruce, Tony, Dan,  Pat, Kippy, Billy, && Joey),
 and Brother:                                                  (                   Tim                       ),

How are you doing? Is there any chance you might be able to visit me in Oshkosh Wisconsin any time soon please?

Things remain pretty rough with me. I've been stuck in rather dire financial circumstances for the past decade.

The main reason I'm writing is in hopes of re-connecting with men I respect, and regard as worth looking up to.

I have no family left in this st8 and few friends. Most of my old ones have back-stabbed me and stolen from me.

Please reply whenever you can, and be again 4 me the role-models and honorable mentors you've been in the past.

Feel free to e-mail me at PipStuart@GMail.Com if replying via land-based snail-mail is less convenient for you.

I gr8ly appreC8 your time and attention. Just reuniting with any of you would probably do wonders 4 my outlook.

Thank you each immensely. I love and miss you much. Take and give care to yourselves and each other && be well.

Peace and Love,                          -Pip  (Philly-Phil, Delbert, Phil-pants, Flipper, Pepper, Peppy, etc.)

P.S. Both my Moms are wicked and terrible women! When Mom was my SSDI Disability Payee, she'd often give me only $30 per week to survive on.
  They were supposed to keep my money-collection safe (worth probably upward of $10,000). Instead, she denied my requests to return it to me
  and allowed it to be stolen when she moved to Columbia Missouri 5 years ago. She denies my needs because of my assumed "toxic masculinity"
  and addiction (in spite of the fact that I have remained almost entirely sober for years now, which she refuses to acknowledge and admit).

P.S. If you're interested in what I've been up to, please check out my Octology project on GitHub.Com && my Pip.BavL.Org/LMS invit8ion site.
  Please Send on to Previous Specified People Selected. !Muchas Gracias! Danke. Domoo Arigatoo Gozaimashita! Thank you so very much bunches!
  P.P.S.S. I'm Philip Mathews sorta too, and Methuser Perl more than Monty Python, but hey satirists and comedians of all 4m@z, let's unite!
  P.P.P.S.S.S. Please Stop Playing So Palpably Stupid, P8riz8ing Simple Pieces Saying Pungent Something Punched Strong Persons' Superl8ives?

If y'all ready for this, on Mon. Feb. 8th, we each buy a tub of scultpting clay, roll of wax-paper to work on, and a large bottle of Elmer's
  glue to cover most of our entry into the competition 4 whose model gets to have the esteemed title of Blessed Mother Being Deflowered!? ;)
  The statuette will need to be placed into a new sort of wood enclosure and variously covered with fake ivy. The selected entrant after the
  3rd day of effort shall adorn the corner of the Whiffle Ball matches we have on Captain's Cove's Lucious Lawn with our new Lennon's Field!

Pip'sPrayer:"Our FlyingSM, who stuArt in Heaven. Hollowed elbow-macaroni be thy Name. Thy Kingdom Cum, in Virgin Mary && Magdalene. Thy Will
  be done... Grace && Noah too. On Earth, as we are on Earth. Give us this day, our daily day-time. Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive
  those who've trespassed on our priv8 property. Lead us not into Tempt8ion (she has S.T.D.'s), but deliver us 2 evils, 4 neutrals, 8 goods,
  as we strut through the valley of the shadow of Death. Let Pip's Kindom Cum, in Power && Glory (whores!). Forever we say 'ever'... Ramen!"
