3 definitions found

From Easton's 1897 Bible Dictionary [easton]:

  Fornication
     in every form of it was sternly condemned by the Mosaic law
     (Lev. 21:9; 19:29; Deut. 22:20, 21, 23-29; 23:18; Ex. 22:16).
     (See {ADULTERY}.)
     
       But this word is more frequently used in a symbolical than in
     its ordinary sense. It frequently means a forsaking of God or a
     following after idols (Isa. 1:2; Jer. 2:20; Ezek. 16; Hos. 1:2;
     2:1-5; Jer. 3:8,9).
     

From Webster's Revised Unabridged Dictionary (1913) [web1913]:

  Fornication \For`ni*ca"tion\, n. [F. fornication, L.
     fornicatio.]
     1. Unlawful sexual intercourse on the part of an unmarried
        person; the act of such illicit sexual intercourse between
        a man and a woman as does not by law amount to adultery.
  
     Note: In England, the offense, though cognizable in the
           ecclesiastical courts, was not at common law subject to
           secular prosecution. In the United States it is
           indictable in some States at common law, in others only
           by statute. --Whartyon.
  
     2. (Script.)
        (a) Adultery.
        (b) Incest.
        (c) Idolatry.

From WordNet (r) 1.6 [wn]:

  fornication
       n 1: voluntary sexual intercourse between persons not married to
            each other
       2: extramarital sex that willfully and maliciously interferes
          with marriage relations; "adultery is often cited as
          grounds for divorce" [syn: {adultery}, {criminal
          conversation}]

A little background: Last Tuesday, April 18th of 2006 (64I: the day after taxes were due), I decided to consider running for President of the United States.
Of course it is a far-fetched idea but I have also come to believe that it is the original and pure "American Dream."  This dream has been corrupted over the
years to be understood as "get rich quick" or "get power quick" or even "enslave your peers".  It is time to return to the hope that anyone can grow up to be
President.  I am eager to commit to leading with honor and integrity.  I will employ the internet to expose every endeavor and facet of governance.  I thought
I should be able to do a better job with my eyes closed.  I think it is time for great change.

I discussed this idea with friends last week.  We were drinking beers at a bar down in San Jose and playing billiards.  My friend, Kevin Ruf, volunteered to
be my running-mate.  Now I'm not sure that I need or want one, but if it turns out that I do, Kevin is my top (and only) choice so far.  He enthusiastically
made a wonderful suggestion.  He pointed out that California has enough land, people, economy, technology, produce, influence, power, etc. that it should
"secede from the union" and refuse to subsidize the rest of the United States' misappropriation of our wealth in every form.  I had not considered this
seriously before Kevin brought it up but it is a contagious and well-justified idea.  California should definitely consider becoming an independent nation!

Californication is the title of a Red Hot Chili Peppers album.

I wish to employ it as the name for a new Californian Nation (as a playful and descriptive contraction of those two words).

Californication will need to declare its independence from the United States of America.  The gist of this declaration will be: "Dude, don't tread on me!"

We will declare our freedom.  We will shirk the yoke of slavery that the U.S. government burdens us with.  We will establish our own new sovereign country.

We will start over.

So how might this work?

There will be one law: "Treat others as you wish to be treated."

That law will be interpreted openly and extrapolated into commonsense applications like the following according to my priorities:
  "Do not murder and try not to kill (either through action or inaction)."
  "Do not rape."
  "Do not eat the flesh off living animals or torture them.  They feel pain."
  "Do not bear false testimony.  Institute fair courts, judges, and juries."
  "Do not steal physical property.  Do not lie or cheat with measurements."

These above rules can and should work in our modern world.  They are closely related to the ten commandments and the seven Noachide laws.  I'm sure there
exist parallels in every major religion but I happen to be most familiar with Judaism and Christianity so far.

Another summary of the intent is: "Seek justice, love mercy, and walk humbly before your G-d."

Some new interpretation of those ancient rule-sets is required though.  As suggested by the name I have chosen for our new nation, any form of voluntary sex
is wholly acceptable within Californication (including in public if observers are not forced either).  Incest is acceptable if voluntary.  Similarly, the old
concept of idolatry is welcomed here.  Be free to make graven images.  Worship whoever, whatever, and however you so desire (as long as that does not hinder
anyone else from enjoying all the same freedoms you do).  Comprehend your freedom and celebrate it.  Propagate it.  Be yourself short of stopping others from
being themselves.

I vaguely remember an M.C.Hammer song from the Addams Family movie (one I never saw) which had a chorus like: "Be who you want to be.  Do what you want to do.
Play how you want to play.  Dance how you want to dance."  It continued on with some kicking and slapping which I'd rather omit but I think the quoted
sentiment is a good one.

Before I get into my opinions on major issues, let me preface it all by saying: My opinion is not steadfast!  I can and will change my mind when presented
with new evidence or opinion.  This may be my platform today.  It is not necessarily the one I will stick to tomorrow.  This is what makes the most sense to
me so far.  Please engage me in honest and respectful debate if you see things differently.

Marriage is going to take on a new form.  A Californication marriage will be merely a recognized union.  It will be a documented voluntary commitment between
*any* people.  I mean any.  It does not matter what race or gender or age or even the total number marrying each other.  It does not matter whether either
party is pursuing multiple marriages.  One woman could have many husbands and the men do not need to be married directly to each other (unless they wish to
be).  It is a question of freedom, not religion.  Religious people will be free to imbue their commitments with whatever regulations, ceremony, and import
they find essential or befitting.  If you are a Californian man and wish to voluntarily obey the "good Christian" teachings of your pastor which stipulate
that you must not engage in polygamy, then simply don't marry a second woman.  You do not have the right to force non-Christians to behave like you when you
attempt to corral secular marriage into your religious concept.  That would be absurd (and has been for far too long).  You might also wish to read your bible
more closely (both for literal and metaphysical understanding) if you think it's your duty to make sure the pagans and polygamists treat marriage like you or
even if you just think polygamy has always been evil.

Abortion will be completely legal.

All drugs will be legal.

All weapons will be legal.

All borders will be open.  Anyone who abides by our rules can freely come live here.

Criminals and prisoners will be set free.  Their records (just as all others) will be made public.  Maybe I will keep murderers, rapists, and other violent
offenders incarcerated for a while as we determine how to best handle them but webcams will be placed in all prisons and visitation rights will become more
humane in that case.  Metaphorically, criminals will have to become the crutch for the victim whose leg they broke until complete healing has taken place.
Non-violent criminals shall each receive a full pardon and apology in person from me on behalf of our people.  I want to welcome them back to a free life
as we all should do.  For those non-violent thieves receiving pardon, I will implore them to consult me personally next time they need more than they have
(i.e., I will freely give them what I can of my own material goods if they continue to find their freedom alone is not satisfying enough).

There will be no compulsory taxation.  If citizens wish to voluntarily contribute their resources (hopefully time and attention or physical labor, but
old-fashioned money could be given too) to the care of the Californication government, I will be glad to help prioritize and oversee the establishment of
housing, rehabilitation, food, education, medicine, infrastructure, retirement, etc. projects.  Each of these will be completely documented online.
Everything will be exposed, accountable, and auditable.  Every decision will be made in public.  Every budget and allocation will be made plain.  Voluntary
contributions can be accompanied by stipulations of arbitrary complexity.  Everything will be accounted for.  Any mistakes discovered will be corrected as
quickly, fairly, and thoroughly as possible.

If other states (nudge, nudge, Hawai'i) wish to form a new alliance or union with Californication, we welcome them.  Probably Las Vegas, Tijuana, Tahoe, and
Reno will want to voluntarily become immediate parts of our nation too.  I will embrace them if that is their collective choice.

"People should not fear their governments.  Governments should fear their people."  -V for Vendetta

It is time to right the wrongs.  It is time to exercise the gift of free-will we have been given.  It is time to rise up together and bring our captors to
their knees.  They will plead for the very mercy they were unwilling to show us.  The greedy oppressors, the deceivers, the thought police, the manipulators
and self-proclaimed authorities of language, the corporate criminals, the corrupt politicians, lawyers, police, and managers will all have to give account for
their actions.  Their hour is at hand.  Allow and encourage them to reform.  Kill them first only if they stubbornly persist in trying to kill you.  Rob their
freedom only if they persist in robbing yours and others.  As difficult as it may be, strive to treat them more fairly than they have treated you.  Blind rage
and revenge will undermine our cause.  Blood will be shed.  Mine might need to be spilt early.  I am prepared to die for freedom.  I am prepared to die for my
own sins and yours.  Know that you deserve freedom while you live (just as you deserve to die as we all do).  Live it and believe it.  When you have shed your
fear of death, it will lose its grasp on you.

The meek shall inherit the earth.  Their eyes shall open and their ears shall hear.  Harken unto my voice and sing aloud with your own.  Bring the wisdom down
from the mountain to the people in your realm of influence.  Share knowledge and ideas with your people.  I am only your savior if you choose to be saved by
my words.  Think about what that choice means.  It means that you are saving yourself.  It means that you are simply recognizing the truth... that you need
not fear death or anything else.  It is better to die free than to live a slave.  Be reborn into understanding.  Be reborn into appreciation of your own
divine nature.  Be reborn as a responsible soul.  Judge for yourself and judge yourself.

Woe to the hypocritical Christians!  I can forgive their wickedness.  Their transgressions can be absolved before man and G-d.  The condition for this is not
just them vocalizing faith in Jesus Christ as they may have heard.  They believe speaking something with the mouth professes requisite faith.  Think again.
Where is their heart?  They must clean the inside of the bowl first; then the outside will be clean also.  The condition for their forgiveness is their own
voluntary reform.  If these "believers" truly had faith in salvation, they would ongoingly change themselves for the better.  They would not keep needing to
ask forgiveness for the same sins.  They would not need us "heathens" and "unbelievers" to point out their errors as frequently as we do.  They would take
responsibility for their own sins and shortcomings and they would turn around.  They would shatter themself on the Rock and they would pick the pieces up into
a beautiful new mosaic.  They would permit the gift of free-will to flourish as it was intended to do.  They would stop crusading.  They would listen and
learn.  They would also share and instruct... but not by force or condescension as is their pompous tendency.

Search your heart.  Find yourself.  Fight for freedom!

Write in "Pip Stuart" on your 2008 ballot for President of the United States.  If we win California together, it will be apparent to the whole world that it
is time for our independence.  California sets the global trends for diverse integration, thought, technology, sex, movies, music, video games, etc. and yes,
even politics.  It is time to take the power back.  It is time for the people to have honest leadership.  It is time for the future.
