51J0I2Z

Some thoughts on Freedom:

I've been reading some Libertarian texts recently... && they are making
a great deal of sense.

So a controlling entity... that allows this very idea of that entity...
that force... that power to tell other people how to live... to pass laws
that decide "right" from "wrong" but for the social good... for the
general public good... That entity must obliterate this idea if it is to
succeed.  This idea is contagious of its own right... although being just
an idea... it has no force to exert... well enough to push keys on this
keyboard... just as it moved pens to write && presses to print... the
conveyance of ideas... the transmission... parceling of thought.  All of
these modes of transport.  The free ones... they're pure.  They don't
need any force that deprive another of anything.  They simply are &&
flow.  But seers see the obstructions.  The force against... the
repulsion... the equal && opposite force is that there is only force &&
non-force.

So then there's this idea... a different one.  It's like what do we want
to be free to do?  Well rather: What do I want to be free to do?  I can't
answer for you.  I want to be free to pursue my own happiness.  Maybe
happiness is just about being happy wherever you are.  That's kinda the
idea.  Either you're content... satisfied... && happy... or you are
agitated && dissatisfied.  Taken to extreme, life is not about
contentment, satisfaction.  Because I constantly want... sleep, food,
water, communication, challenge, love, speed, technology... so how
can I want my whole life && also not want?  That is the peace... of course
a calm can be found in mundane things... a happiness && contentment with
even the wants.  There is a balance && each discuvers it && fluctuates
from it at their own pace... rate.

I want to be free to do that.  I want others to be similarly free.  Not a
bogus lie of "Land of the Free"... && it takes Brave people to recognize
&& stand up against the growing forceful authority.  The idea of
regulating victimless crime is asinine.  It doesn't make sense on its face
or anywhere deeper.  It is purely the willingness to use force to make
others into how you think they should be.  Well politicians && all status
quo big-government defenders && supporters: What assurance, guarantee... or
even likelihood do you have that your own uncontrollable power won't turn
against you?  Almost everyone has heard the quote to the effect: "When
they came for us, there was noone left to speak up."  This refers to Nazi
Germany but it applies just as well to things as small as public crime
involving theft or brutality where onlookers have no rational incentive to
get involved... passing through looking the other way when your own beloved
government is the thief && assailant... on to any historical totalitarian
government which got drunk on their power... their monopoly on force which
enabled them to commit atrocities && massacres of their dissenters &&
undesirables.  It seems the poor of the United States are headed to become
the Jews of Germany (or cynically already are).

Every different governmental concept has merit... purity in its ideal.
Communism could work out nicely if people wanted to share completely.
It works well on a small scale when it is voluntary.  It could work on
substantially larger scales.  The problem becomes a government with the
strength && will to exert force to compel the unwilling to cooperate or
die.  That attitude is wrong.  The answer to government is freedom.  Let
people choose to live their lives as they see fit.  Nobody is a better
judge for how to live, what to do, what choices to make, what deals to
take... than the person who lives with there.  The need for big government
is a big deception.

I didn't quite grasp the Libertarian tenet of not initiating force before
this week.  I thought maybe violent revolution was the only way to
overcome a growing parasitic enemy like the United States government...
but now I'm beginning to see that true anarchy is not violence (except
in defense which ought to be extremely controlled... honorable... not
retaliation unto revenge... rather like Aikido, defensive maneuvers that
control the opponent, disarm them, disable the threat as peaceably as is
feasible)... true anarchy is the collective realization that nobody should
exert force on anyone else.  Live && let live.  This is Liberty.  This is
Freedom.  Let us not rise up... but sit down in peaceful demonstration.
The protest of deception && corruption in government need not yield more
or subtly different government but a decrease if it is to succeed.  The
propagation of this idea... this is success.  This idea is Free.  As long
as I live && hold this idea of Freedom... the further I am living &&
defending what I believe in... that is my freedom.  We should be free.
