64J0FdP - PresidentSavior.txt created by Pip Stuart <PipStuart@Gmail.Com> to collect my thoughts on potentially running for President of the United States.

What is my goal?
  To reverse the major trends of our government by lowering taxes, shrinking programs, and curtailing spending while adding accountability and transparency.

  I want to let the Christians believe whatever they wish as long as they don't use force of law, punishment, or death to oppress others with their ideals.

  I want to be as free as possible and I want the same for each of my fellow citizens of earth.

  Let's oust the war-mongers.  Let's listen to reason and embrace change.  Let's return to the core values of honor, respect, truth, and justice.

  I'm not out here to be marketable.  I'm not second-guessing the nation.  I'm not expecting to be well-received necessarily.  I am only expecting to set a
    fine example for the future.

  Let's drop the facades and stop the lies.  Let's just be people getting along together.

  Ideals, principles, morals, honesty, integrity, reliability... what traits matter (in a leader or a follower)?

  Search your soul.  If you had infinite power, would you eagerly abuse it?  I do not believe I would.

  I would not accept the Presidential salary (is it presently $275,000 / year?).

  I would listen to people in every walk of life.  My advisers would primarily be real people with sound reasoning as opposed to political shills or
    war-mongers.

  Maybe I need a bunch of sections like "Who am I?", "How am I different?", "What do I realistically hope to accomplish?", etc..

  I don't want a centralized campaign.  I don't want contributions of anything other than verbal support.  I want people to talk about change and me as a
    potential catalyst.  I want to be as simple and pure as possible.

  I want to be a great leader, not in the sense of glory or power, but in the sense of progress and education.  The only fear I wish to use to my advantage is
    the appropriate fear of large oppressive governments.  I wish to reassure people that they ought to fear everything else far less than they do.

  I don't want everything secular or everything religious.  Uniformity is wrong.  Things are complex.  Don't oversimplify.

  Freedom is what matters.

  Live free.
