Intellectuals meet with other intellectuals... but this one here... - 30
Reply to: pers-421199703@craigslist.org
Date: 2007-09-13, 12:45AM PDT

Hola. Que honda?! Ii o-tenkidesune? Watashiwa Nihongo-ga skoshi hanashimasu demo mada jozu-ja arimasen. =)

Speak another language? I wish I could become fluent in Spanish, Nipponese, && Hebrew (to start with)... as well as furthering my fluency in United Statesian English... && a bunch of programming languages (which are admittedly rare to have in spoken form, but have their own higher standard of inflexibility in usage).

I guess that's all going to seem irrelevant to most readers... I hope. ;)

They'll totally scoff at this next part... but I'm not trying to reach them with this anyway.

I may be... well I probably just simply am one of the smartest people presently living. I've dabbled in Mensa and Gifted stuff, sought out others with troublesomely high IQs... and it's weird that intelligence is so resented (at least when it's vividly distinguished) by those who are merely average or below but this type of thing happens so much less with things like athleticism or musical talent or excellent balance or multi-octave vocal ranges etc.. I suspect it is another manifestation of the culture of fear that is progressively supplanting honest integrity with hypocrisy (while keeping the name of the former), dismissing science for faith, where the land of people who originally considered themselves brave pioneers, once proud to have immigrated for the prospect of uncertain opportunity, now have become defensive of having their prosperity challenged or threatened by ambitious and diligent immigrants of today, making racist judgments according to skin-color, people so cowardly in their unwillingness to imagine improvement, to challenge the assumptions that governments and media use to justify their wars against freshly stereotyped demonic facades, etc.. I could get too carried away here... but I think another major factor of that attitude of opposition toward occurrences of profoundly heightened cognitive capacity is due to the popular, simplistic, short-sighted, and egregiously inflated level of value placed on wealth. This mentality seems only willing to tolerate abnormality if it can be harnessed in some lucrative manner. This denies the existence of inherent worth in individuality, diversity, complexity... to everyone's ultimate detriment.

I'm trying to say that I'm looking to find new friendships, understanding, mutual appreciation, intimacy, rich contemplative exploration in conversation and relation, and responsiveness too, so that those I find I can relate most well with are able to convey whatever else they would most wish to have provided for them. I want to achieve palpable mutual satiation. =)

I'd like to meet new female friends and potential lovers who are smarter than me. I want partners in life who have to make a conscious effort to relate to the motivations of more average people, because the justifications for so many behaviors are too often implicit (and unknown, thus left uncriticized by adherents) mimicry, tradition, comfort, pride, self-righteousness, etc. without tangible defensible backing. I expect there must be several passionate women out there who are similar seekers of truth and justice, in ways that most people can't fathom. Such a woman may even feel an overwhelming sense of despair, distress, and futility in everything (a worse depression than one caused solely by plummeting self-esteem) because her perspective is so consciously anachronistic that she feels misplaced, lost, abandoned, outcast, isolated, lonely, misfit, hopeless, over-burdened by both acute farseeing ability and a corresponding sense of obligation (or even destiny) to catalyze enormous improvements (as if selecting insightfully from an infinite number of possible futures), and ill-equipped to rectify the horrendous inanity of the complacency and apathy that saturates our self-proclaimed "highly advanced" modern cultures. Her mind's-eye sees a future that is so majestic and crystalline that it cannot be described to her family effectively, nor her closest friends, nor her co-workers (although many from each group are wonderfully sweet and compassionate, concerned and they attempt mightily to glimpse that which she longs to describe).

I too feel like that. I would love to find open-minded spiritual communion with a woman who wants to simply allow her incredibly brilliant self to come out from hiding, to not have to be shielded from the harsh prejudices of the terrified over-cautious normals, to celebrate (and revel in) the unfettered exposure of her long-hidden vulnerable breath-taking self-evident beauty, radiant, glorious, majestic, deserving of the honor, the acclaim, the adoration, reverence, nurturing, encouragement, and appreciation I wish to bestow upon her.

Maybe that was too melodramatic? I don't want to scare away. I guess I am relatively harmlessly insane by modern standards, since I expect myself to be entirely abnormal, eccentric, provokative, misunderstood, needing to jump through hoops to connect with people. There is also a rhythm to complexity and exploration which I aim to respect though... so let me recede into slower and simpler again for a bit. I love nerdy. I love complex. I love conflicted. I love emotion and logic intertwined. I love challenge. I love to learn. I love going fast. I love friction. I love to heal. I love both cooperation && competition. I love play. I hate initiated physical violence. I hate wars and rumors of wars. I hate deception, manipulation, greed, enslavement, oppression, torture... but I like risk, drugs, creativity, revolution, intensity, and calm too... context-sensitivity, gentle fingertips and nails, whispers of sweet things, rejuvenation, and also appropriate conclusion.

Comin' over with all the craziest things in the Craig'sList you saw, with parts that don't make no sense (at least for those of you saying "But what kind of money does he make?!")... This is not a test or lame requirement for me to be willing to respond to you, it's just a playful invitation I'd like to end with: Can you reply to me in some way that convinces, persuades, or suggests to me that you have recognized the reference in my post-title (without having needed to Google it)? Do you see any sense to that?

* Location: Venice
* it's NOT ok to contact this poster with services or other commercial interests
