Please edit: "isn't unsustainable".

Also, while I'm elated with last night's results and I concur that there's an unsustainable demographic trend regarding Republicans and Latino voters, from my perspective this trend appears to be slightly less consequential than the also clearly unsustainable demographic trend regarding Republicans and women (as well as men who thoroughly care about women too). I remain heartened that, albeit narrowly, our country still won't tolerate many candidates who disclose plans to force impregnated rape victims to thereafter carry and birth as though that could be the will of G-d. Obviously women are more substantial than mere "binders" (a quaint tedious manual search technology that still must be serving well in its entrenched domains), but Romney incapable of espousing support for fair pay (especially when he rarely had qualms otherwise saying the convenient thing to the local audience then having his following campaign pretend that they can rescind whatever position on the issue), inability to appreciate the critical need for Planned Parenthood everywhere, favorability toward "personhood" amendments and redefinition of rape from his own VP nominee, etc. all contributed to dehumanizing objectification ideas persisting. I think the GOP (or "GOTP" if you prefer) has a demographic epidemic across the board. I hear a lot dismissing 99% of Black voters' support for Obama as though it's attributable exclusively to steadfast racial loyalty and therefore unworthy of further scrutiny. Republicans certainly haven't yet been champions of GLBT equality. The GOP is dropping the ball on almost everybody and all the hundred million dollars brazenly spent cynically fabricating events and boldly out-of-context caricatures just seem like an anachronistic glimpse into the prior hidden innards of our democratic republic gyration machine. I think a conspicuous amount of the greed of the wealthy remains laid bare. I loathe that we have extensive research, oversight, integrity, honesty, and thorough disclosure for each new medication commercial but simultaneously permit none of those positive disturbances to intrude into what can be said about our candidates. Intentionally suppressing the vote must become untenable too. I don't know if the GOP must implode or if doing so would lead to a more positive regeneration. Maybe the super-rich just need to go back to covertly buying whatever favorable influence they can afford with *both* parties, recognizing they're going to have to be able to get away with ultimately less malevolence over time for our system to remain justly sustainable. I don't want class warfare to become more ominous but it's intentionally threatening to the 47% and the 99% when most playboy millionaires have lined up to try to buy way more power with impunity. I guess losing their money and the election might even give the ultra-wealthy a cause for sober reflection, e.g., maybe relying primarily on us richest elites to make the wisest investments (and us continuing to rely on minority oppression to maintain the orders of magnitude difference in status) doesn't quite turn out so good for us either?

I hope for peace and more cooperation, way less deception and oppression. That goes for rich vs. poor, man vs. woman, white vs. Latino, straight vs. gay, U.S.A. vs. any other country, and also Republicans vs. Democrats. It felt stressfully close throughout the long campaigns, ads, polls, conventions, debates, and much of the way through the vote accumulation process last night too. I'm glad I voted to re-elect President Barack Obama yesterday and that he has won! I think he is great. I'm proud he remains our President. We need to stop fighting wars and take some gratuitous Sabbatical (Can we be declared at peace for 7 years?), during which we need to exhaustively scrutinise everything we've known and all we can learn from all the wars we've already participated in. Let's take time to take care of and learn from our veterans. I don't understand why aggressive investment in alternative energy technologies should be something to scoff at. Maybe Libertarians could supplant Republicans somehow too. I hope they all improve but Republicans have been lagging pretty bad on most important issues and I guess I just wanted to be a pedant and point out the "isn't" double-negative thing and got effusive because I'm still quite excited that we still have all the great that Obama is and we're not repeating or exceeding the tortures of Bush Jr. and company. Hopefully brighter and better future ahead. =)

-Pip
P.S. I don't think I feel like posting all this. It's kinda like my crazy old self. They've already fixed the article's double-negative, although Colbert might have liked the original better. Should be a happy day. Don't need to post my bluster publicly anymore. Read more news and rejoice!
