This document has been created on June 10th, 2001 for the purpose of 
describing a simple code of rules for unifying the brothers of the
Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity (Zeta Tau chapter specifically) during
ceremonial events or other gatherings warranting respectful, reverent, 
or attentive participation.  Please do not read this unless you are 
a brother of Alpha Epsilon Pi.

1) The Ceremonial Initiation of any pledge class is the most serious 
and formal event our fraternity predictably engages in.  Brothers 
attending any AEPi Initiation Ceremony should behave in the following 
controlled manner:
 1a. Do not speak at all during the procession unless you have been 
  assigned a speaking part by the brother directing the ceremony (most 
  likely the Brother Master).  This means that comments, jokes, 
  suggestions, recommendations, opinions, conversations, corrections, 
  or any other vocalization (that may seem funny or appropriate at the 
  time) should not be uttered.
 1b. Do not fart or belch or eat or snap or tap your foot or make any 
  excessive or disruptive noise.  Be as silent and still as possible 
  when the ceremony is going on so that the speaker can be heard 
  clearly and each pledge is seriously aware of the oath and obligations 
  that they are undertaking.
 1c. When humming or making any other unified sound with your brothers, 
  please take care to do so in a hushed and respectful tone so that 
  your part is not noticeably louder or out of tune from the rest of the 
  brotherhood.
 1d. Stand upright alongside your brothers about the perimeter of the
  room.  Do not sit or squat or lounge or slouch.  It is preferable if 
  you stand very close to your neighboring brothers (if not with your 
  arms over their shoulders) to visually and physically demonstrate the 
  closeness of our brotherhood and the tightly-knit family the pledges 
  are about to be indoctrinated into.
 1e. The brother conducting the ceremony will appoint a Sentinel if 
  brothers are so immature and selfish that they cannot control their 
  disruptiveness.  The Sentinel is likely to warn once or twice if you 
  are acting inappropriately.  If your self-control is so poor that he 
  must ask you to leave the ceremony, please do so quietly and quickly.  
  You would have been permitted to stay if you were willing to extend 
  the same courtesy to the pledges that the brothers before you 
  extended for you.  Don't be a dickhead and ruin our most important 
  occassion.
 1f. If you don't know what to do, stand quietly and observe intently 
  so that you may familiarize yourself with our ritual and gain insight 
  into how our ceremony should be conducted in the future.  Don't be 
  frustrated that you were not appointed to the focal role in the 
  ceremony that you had hoped to occupy.  If you are respectful, 
  humble, and persevere, you multiply your chances of being chosen at 
  the next opportunity. 

2) The second most serious category of events are Pledge Line-Ups.  
 Appropriate behavior during Line-Ups:
 2a. Do not speak unless the Brother Master (or brother conducting the 
  Line-Up) directs you to.  Do not carry on conversations or interject 
  suggestions.
 2b. Control your bodily gases as with an Initiation.  Bear in mind 
  that the Line-Up is supposed to be a serious grilling of the pledges.  
  Their knowledge is tested and they are demoralized for imperfect 
  performance.  They are expected to "bury their smiles" whenever one 
  creeps onto their faces.  The brothers too, need to remain smile-less 
  and somber so that the pledges can feel the impact of not only 
  letting themselves down, but also their Pledge Educator, the Brother 
  Master, and the entire Brotherhood sitting before them with apparent 
  disappointment and disapproval.  Line-Ups are designed to be the most 
  severe component of pledgeship.  Please do not ruin the atmosphere 
  with light-heartedness and selfish comic relief.
 2c. Snap or hiss in unison with your brothers.  Refrain from 
  habitually making the last or loudest snap or hiss since it disrupts 
  the intent and effectiveness of the event.  Be a cooperative part of
  our one Brotherhood.
 2d. Sit comfortably about the room very near to your brothers.  As 
  much as is feasible, the entire Brotherhood should be positioned in
  front of the line of pledges so that their peripheral vision (while 
  gazing directly at the Pi of our letters) can detect the magnitude of 
  the whole Brotherhood shaking their heads while hissing at their 
  failure.
 2e. If the brother conducting the Line-Up has felt it necessary to 
  appoint a Sentinel to maintain obedience, do not act as his agent.  
  This means you should not tell other brothers to "Shut up!" (or any 
  equivalent expression) since you will be hypocritically contributing 
  to the disturbance yourself.  Permit the Sentinel to maintain order.
  Many events do not even warrant this level of self-control but the 
  most important do.  If each brother can respect the specialness of 
  the experience for the pledges and adhere to these rules, we will 
  instill our new initiates with awe, respect, and appreciation for 
  our traditions and our ability to cooperate for the purpose of our 
  own propagation.  Regenerating and rejuvenating AEPi is fundamental 
  to our ability to impart the joys of the Brotherhood, that we have 
  benefitted from and contributed to, on to new generations of Jews 
  and upright people who are compelled to resign themselves to the 
  distinguishment of being eternal members in an openly and proudly 
  Jewish organization.
 2f. If you have a serious suggestion, inclusion, or recommendation 
  as to the procession of the Line-Up, please raise your hand so that 
  the Sentinel or Brother Master can acknowledge you and give you 
  the floor to speak aloud or whisper it calmly for consideration.  
  Do not be upset if your idea is not incorporated into the ceremony.
  Do not shout or make demands of the pledges without being called 
  upon.

3. The third category of events are those which are private and fun.
 This includes most nicknaming/pushpin ceremonies, revealings, 
 paddlings, and other "reinforcement" activities.
 3a. These events are supposed to be fun and generally irreverent 
  however a degree of order is still necessary and appropriate.  
  Please obey the brother conducting the event (and the Sentinel if 
  present) immediately and fully.  Please do not be particularly 
  disruptive (ie. more rambunctious than any brother around you).
 3b. Generally, farting, burping, laughing, mom-jokes, witty comments 
  are acceptable when well timed.  If any or all of these are done 
  excessively or with genuine cruelty and disrespect, they rapidly 
  destroy the humor and enjoyment of the event.  Don't carry on 
  outside conversations until after the event.  Please be sensitive 
  and use restraint when asked to, even if you're convinced that your 
  behavior should be acceptable (or you think that "other brothers 
  were doing the same thing and weren't asked to stop so I don't need 
  to behave properly either").  Don't be an ass, ass!
 3c. This one is simple but we will always have trouble enforcing it:
  Don't treat any brother or pledge in a way that you would not permit 
  or want them to treat you.  If the pledge were a brother and you 
  were a pledge and he told you to lick the ground and buy him lunch 
  and carry his heavy backpack to his classes for him, if you would 
  really do those things without complaining then it is relatively 
  fair to expect and ask those things of him.  Don't have double 
  standards.  
 3d. Beyond doing what you would allow done to you, learn when your 
  brothers are sensitive to certain things so that you don't 
  unnecessarily push their buttons.  Don't expect them to have a sense 
  of humor about everything.  Some brothers don't find mom-jokes funny 
  (hypothetically of course) so don't bag on their moms.  Be attentive 
  to each of your brothers' needs and wants and hurts.  It will bring 
  us all closer and stronger. 
 3e. Be respectful.
 3f. Have fun.

... the rest is just commentary (explanation)   
