
"A Nation of Cowards" was published in the Fall, '93 issue of
_The Public Interest_, a quarterly journal of opinion published
by National Affairs, Inc. It is uploaded with permission of the
publisher for private use by CompuServe subscribers. Permission
must be obtained from the publisher for all other uses. If you
upload this file to another CompuServe forum or to another
electronic network or bulletin board, this header must be
retained.

The article came to our attention because it first came to the
attention of George Will, who devoted a _Newsweek_ editorial to
it in the November 15, '93 issue. Will, who has advocated the
repeal of the Second Amendment, found Snyder's argument strong
and compelling. So have many others.

Single copies of _The Public Interest_ are available for $6.
Annual subscription rate is $21 ($24 US, for Canadian and foreign
subscriptions). Single copies of this or other issues, and
subscriptions, can be obtained from:

     The Public Interest
     1112 16th St., NW, Suite 530
     Washington, DC 20036

(C) 1993 by _The Public Interest_.

*****************************************************************

                       A Nation of Cowards

                       by Jeffrey R. Snyder


   OUR SOCIETY has reached a pinnacle of self-expression and
respect for individuality rare or unmatched in history. Our entire
popular culture -- from fashion magazines to the cinema -- positively
screams the matchless worth of the individual, and glories in
eccentricity, nonconformity, independent judgment, and
self-determination. This enthusiasm is reflected in the prevalent notion
that helping someone entails increasing that person's "self-esteem";
that if a person properly values himself, he will naturally be a happy,
productive, and, in some inexplicable fashion, responsible member of
society.

  And yet, while people are encouraged to revel in their
individuality and incalculable self-worth, the media and the law
enforcement establishment continually advise us that, when confronted
with the threat of lethal violence, we should not resist, but simply
give the attacker what he wants. If the crime under consideration is
rape, there is some notable waffling on this point, and the discussion
quickly moves to how the woman can change her behavior to minimize the
risk of rape, and the various ridiculous, non-lethal weapons she may
acceptably carry, such as whistles, keys, mace or, that weapon which
really sends shivers down a rapist's spine, the portable cellular phone.

   Now how can this be? How can a person who values himself so
highly calmly accept the indignity of a criminal assault? How can one
who believes that the essence of his dignity lies in his
self-determination passively accept the forcible deprivation of that
self-determination? How can he, quietly, with great dignity and poise,
simply hand over the goods?

   The assumption, of course, is that there is no inconsistency.
The advice not to resist a criminal assault and simply hand over the
goods is founded on the notion that one's life is of incalculable value,
and that no amount of property is worth it. Put aside, for a moment, the
outrageousness of the suggestion that a criminal who proffers lethal
violence should be treated as if he has instituted a new social
contract: "I will not hurt or kill you if you give me what I want." For
years, feminists have labored to educate people that rape is not about
sex, but about domination, degradation, and control. Evidently, someone
needs to inform the law enforcement establishment and the media that
kidnapping, robbery, carjacking, and assault are not about property.

   Crime is not only a complete disavowal of the social contract,
but also a commandeering of the victim's person and liberty. If the
individual's dignity lies in the fact that he is a moral agent engaging
in actions of his own will, in free exchange with others, then crime
always violates the victim's dignity. It is, in fact, an act of
enslavement. Your wallet, your purse, or your car may not be worth your
life, but your dignity is; and if it is not worth fighting for, it can
hardly be said to exist.


                  The gift of life

   Although difficult for modern man to fathom, it was once
widely believed that life was a gift from God, that not to defend that
life when offered violence was to hold God's gift in contempt, to be a
coward and to breach one's duty to one's community. A sermon given in
Philadelphia in 1747 unequivocally equated the failure to defend oneself
with suicide:

     He that suffers his life to be taken from him by one that hath no
     authority for that purpose, when he might preserve it by defense,
     incurs the Guilt of self murder since God hath enjoined him to seek
     the continuance of his life, and Nature itself teaches every
     creature to defend itself.

   "Cowardice" and "self-respect" have largely disappeared from
public discourse. In their place we are offered "self-esteem" as the
bellwether of success and a proxy for dignity. "Self-respect" implies
that one recognizes standards, and judges oneself worthy by the degree
to which one lives up to them. "Self-esteem" simply means that one feels
good about oneself. "Dignity" used to refer to the self-mastery and
fortitude with which a person conducted himself in the face of life's
vicissitudes and the boorish behavior of others. Now, judging by campus
speech codes, dignity requires that we never encounter a discouraging
word and that others be coerced into acting respectfully, evidently on
the assumption that we are powerless to prevent our degradation if
exposed to the demeaning behavior of others. These are signposts
proclaiming the insubstantiality of our character, the hollowness of our
souls.

   It is impossible to address the problem of rampant crime
without talking about the moral responsibility of the intended victim.
Crime is rampant because the law-abiding, each of us, condone it, excuse
it, permit it, submit to it. We permit and encourage it because we do
ack, immediately, then and there, where it happens. Crime is
not rampant because we do not have enough prisons, because judges and
prosecutors are too soft, because the police are hamstrung with absurd
technicalities. The defect is there, in our character. We are a nation
of cowards and shirkers.


           Do you feel lucky?

   In 1991, when then-Attorney General Richard Thornburgh
released the FBI's annual crime statistics, he noted that it is now more
likely that a person will be the victim of a violent crime than that he
will be in an auto accident. Despite this, most people readily believe
that the existence of the police relieves them of the responsibility to
take full measures to protect themselves. The police, however, are not
personal bodyguards. Rather, they act as a general deterrent to crime,
both by their presence and by apprehending criminals after the fact. As
numerous courts have held, they have no legal obligation to protect
anyone in particular. You cannot sue them for failing to prevent you
from being the victim of a crime.

   Insofar as the police deter by their presence, they are very,
very good. Criminals take great pains not to commit a crime in front of
them. Unfortunately, the corollary is that you can pretty much bet your
life (and you are) that they won't be there at the moment you actually
need them.

   Should you ever be the victim of an assault, a robbery, or a
rape, you will find it very difficult to call the police while the act
is in progress, even if you are carrying a portable cellular phone.
Nevertheless, you might be interested to know how long it takes them to
show up. Department of Justice statistics for 1991 show that, for all
crimes of violence, Only 2 percent of calls are responded to within five
minutes. The idea that protection is a service people can call to have
delivered and expect to receive in a timely fashion is often mocked by
gun owners, who love to recite the challenge, "call for a cop, call for
an ambulance, and call for a pizza. See who shows up first. "

   Many people deal with the problem of crime by convincing
themselves that they live, work, and travel only in special "crime-free"
zones. Invariably, they react with shock and hurt surprise when they
discover that criminals do not play by the rules and do not respect
these imaginary boundaries. If, however, you understand that crime can
occur anywhere at anytime, and if you understand that you can be maimed
or mortally wounded in mere seconds, you may wish to consider whether
you are willing to place the responsibility for safeguarding your life
in the hands of others.


            Power and responsibility

   Is your life worth protecting? If so, whose responsibility is
it to protect it? If you believe that it is the police's, not only are
you wrong -- since the courts universally rule that they have no legal
obligation to do so -- but you face some difficult moral quandaries. How
can you rightfully ask another human being to risk his life to protect
yours, when you will assume no responsibility yourself? Because that is
his job and we pay him to do it? Because your life is of incalculable
value, but his is only worth the $30,000 salary we pay him? If you
believe it reprehensible to possess the means and will to use lethal
force to repel a criminal assault, how can you call upon another to do
so for you?

   Do you believe that you are forbidden to protect yourself
because the police are better qualified to protect you, because they
know what they are doing but you're a rank amateur? Put aside that this
is equivalent to believing that only concert pianists may play the piano
and only professional athletes may play sports. What exactly are these
special qualities possessed only by the police and beyond the rest of us
mere mortals?

   One who values his life and takes seriously his
responsibilities to his family and community will possess and cultivate
the means of fighting back, and will retaliate when threatened with
death or grievous injury to himself or a loved one. He will never be
content to rely solely on others for his safety or to think he has done
all that is possible by being aware of his surroundings and taking
measures of avoidance. Let's not mince words: He will be armed, will be
trained in the use of his weapon, and will defend himself when faced
with lethal violence.

   Fortunately, there is a weapon for preserving life and liberty
that can be wielded effectively by almost anyone -- the handgun. Small
and light enough to be carried habitually, lethal, but unlike the knife
or sword, not demanding great skill or strength, it truly is the "great
equalizer." Requiring only hand-eye coordination and a modicum of
ability to remain cool under pressure, it can be used effectively by the
old and the weak against the young and the strong, by the one against
the many.

   The handgun is the only weapon that would give a lone female
jogger a chance of prevailing against a gang of thugs intent on rape, a
teacher a chance of protecting children at recess from a madman intent
on massacring them, a family of tourists waiting at a mid-town subway
station the means to protect themselves from a gang of teens armed with
razors and knives.

   But since we live in a society that by and large outlaws the
carrying of arms, we are brought into the fray of the Great American Gun
War. Gun control is one of the most prominent battlegrounds in our
current culture wars. Yet it is unique in the half-heartedness with
which our conservative leaders and pundits -- our "conservative elite"
- -- do battle, and have conceded the moral high ground to liberal gun
control proponents. It is not a topic often written about or written
about with any great fervor, by William F. Buckley or Patrick Buchanan.
As drug czar, William Bennett advised President Bush to ban "assault
weapons." George Will is on record as recommending the repeal of the
Second Amendment, and Jack Kemp is on record as favoring a ban on the
possession of semiautomatic "assault weapons." The battle for gun rights
is one fought predominantly by the common man. The beliefs of both our
liberal and conservative elites are in fact abetting the criminal
rampage through our society.


               Selling crime prevention

   By any rational measure, nearly all gun control proposals are
hokum. The Brady Bill, for example, would not have prevented John
Hinckley from obtaining a gun to shoot President Reagan; Hinckley
purchased his weapon five months before that attack, and his medical
records could not have served as a basis to deny his purchase of a gun,
since medical records are not public documents filed with the police.
Similarly, California's waiting period and background check did not stop
Patrick Purdy from purchasing the "assault rifle" and handguns he used
to massacre children during recess in a Stockton schoolyard; the felony
conviction that would have provided the basis for stopping the sales did
not exist, because Mr. Purdy's previous weapons violations were
plea-bargained down from felonies to misdemeanors.

   In the mid-sixties there was a public service advertising
campaign targeted at car owners about the prevention of car theft. The
purpose of the ad was to urge car owners not to leave their keys in
their cars. The message was, "Don't help a good boy go bad." The
implication was that, by leaving his keys in his car, the normal,
law-abiding car owner was contributing to the delinquency of minors who,
if they just weren't tempted beyond their limits, would be "good." Now,
in those days people still had a fair sense of just who was responsible
for whose behavior. The ad succeeded in enraging a goodly portion of the
populace, and was soon dropped.

   Nearly all of the gun control measures offered by Handgun
Control, Inc. (HCI) and its ilk employ the same philosophy. They are
founded on the belief that America's law-abiding gun owners are the
source of the problem. With their unholy desire for firearms, they are
creating a society awash in a sea of guns, thereby helping good boys go
bad, and helping bad boys be badder. This laying of moral blame for
violent crime at the feet of the law-abiding, and the implicit
absolution of violent criminals for their misdeeds, naturally infuriates
honest gun owners.

   The files of HCI and other gun control organizations are
filled with proposals to limit the availability of semiautomatic and
other firearms to law-abiding citizens, and barren of proposals for
apprehending and punishing violent criminals. It is ludicrous to expect
that the proposals of HCI, or any gun control laws, will significantly
curb crime. According to Department of Justice and Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) statistics, fully 90 percent of violent
crimes are committed without a handgun, and 93 percent of the guns
obtained by violent criminals are not obtained through the lawful
purchase and sale transactions that are the object of most gun control
legislation. Furthermore, the number of violent criminals is minute in
comparison to the number of firearms in America -- estimated by the ATF
at about 200 million, approximately one-third of which are handguns.
With so abundant a supply, there will always be enough guns available
for those who wish to use them for nefarious ends, no matter how
complete the legal prohibitions against them, or how draconian the
punishment for their acquisition or use. No, the gun control proposals
of HCI and other organizations are not seriously intended as crime
control. Something else is at work here.


             The tyranny of the elite

   Gun control is a moral crusade against a benighted, barbaric
citizenry. This is demonstrated not only by the ineffectualness of gun
control in preventing crime, and by the fact that it focuses on
restricting the behavior of the law-abiding rather than apprehending and
punishing the guilty, but also by the execration that gun control
proponents heap on gun owners and their evil instrumentality, the NRA.
Gun owners are routinely portrayed as uneducated, paranoid rednecks
fascinated by and prone to violence, i.e., exactly the type of person
who opposes the liberal agenda and whose moral and social "re-education"
is the object of liberal social policies. Typical of such bigotry is New
York Gov. Mario Cuomo's famous characterization of gun-owners as
"hunters who drink beer, don't vote, and lie to their wives about where
they were all weekend". Similar vituperation is rained upon the NRA,
characterized by Sen. Edward Kennedy as the "pusher's best friend,"
lampooned in political cartoons as standing for the right of children to
carry firearms to school and, in general, portrayed as standing for an
individual's God-given right to blow people away at will.

   The stereotype is, of course, false. As criminologist and
constitutional lawyer Don B. Kates, Jr. and former HCI contributor Dr.
Patricia Harris have pointed out, "[s]tudies consistently show that, on
the average, gun owners are better educated and have more prestigious
jobs than non-owners.... Later studies show that gun owners are *less*
likely than non-owners to approve of police brutality, violence against
dissenters, etc."

   Conservatives must understand that the antipathy many liberals
have for gun owners arises in good measure from their statist
utopianism. This habit of mind has nowhere been better explored than in
_The Republic_. There, Plato argues that the perfectly just society is
one in which an unarmed people exhibit virtue by minding their own
business in the performance of their assigned functions, while the
government of philosopher-kings, above the law and protected by armed
guardians unquestioning in their loyalty to the state, engineers,
implements, and fine-tunes the creation of that society, aided and
abetted by myths that both hide and justify their totalitarian
manipulation.


              The unarmed life

   When columnist Carl Rowan preaches gun control and uses a gun
to defend his home, when Maryland Gov. William Donald Schaefer seeks
legislation year after year to ban semiautomatic "assault weapons" whose
only purpose, we are told, is to people, while he is at the same
time escorted by state police armed with large-capacity 9mm
semiautomatic pistols, it is not simple hypocrisy. It is the workings of
that habit of mind possessed by all superior beings who have taken upon
themselves the terrible burden of civilizing the masses and who
understand, like our Congress, that laws are for other people.
   The liberal elite know that they are philosopher-kings. They
know that the people simply cannot be trusted; that they are incapable
of just and fair self-government; that left to their own devices, their
society will be racist, sexist, homophobic, and inequitable -- and the
liberal elite know how to fix things. They are going to help us live the
good and just life, even if they have to lie to us and force us to do
it. And they detest those who stand in their way.
   The private ownership of firearms is a rebuke to this utopian
zeal. To own firearms is to affirm that freedom and liberty are not
gifts from the state. It is to reserve final judgment about whether the
state is encroaching on freedom and liberty, to stand ready to defend
that freedom with more than mere words, and to stand outside the state's
totalitarian reach.


          The Florida experience

   The elitist distrust of the people underlying the gun control
movement is illustrated beautifully in HCI's campaign against a new
concealed-carry law in Florida. Prior to 1987, the Florida law
permitting the issuance of concealed-carry permits was administered at
the county level. The law was vague, and, as a result, was subject to
conflicting interpretation and political manipulation. Permits were
issued principally to security personnel and the privileged few with
political connections. Permits were valid only within the county of
issuance.

   In 1987, however, Florida enacted a uniform concealed-carry
law which mandates that county authorities issue a permit to anyone who
satisfies certain objective criteria. The law requires that a permit he
issued to any applicant who is a resident, at least twenty-one years of
age, has no criminal record, no record of alcohol or drug abuse, no
history of mental illness, and provides evidence of having
satisfactorily completed a firearms safety course offered by the NRA or
other competent instructor. The applicant must provide a set of
fingerprints, after which the authorities make a background check. The
permit must be issued or denied within ninety days, is valid throughout
the state, and must be renewed every three years, which provides
authorities a regular means of reevaluating whether the permit holder
still qualifies.

   Passage of this legislation was vehemently opposed by HCI and
the media. The law, they said, would lead to citizens shooting each
other over everyday disputes involving fender benders, impolite
behavior, and other slights to their dignity. Terms like "Florida, the
Gunshine State" and "Dodge City East" were coined to suggest that the
state, and those seeking passage of the law, were encouraging
individuals to act as judge, jury, and execu- tioner in a "Death Wish"
society.

   No HCI campaign more clearly demonstrates the elitist beliefs
underlying the campaign to eradicate gun ownership. Given the
qualifications required of permit holders, HCI and the media can only
believe that common law-abiding citizens are seething cauldrons of
homicidal rage, ready to kill to avenge any slight to their dignity,
eager to seek out and summarily execute the lawless. Only lack of
immediate access to a gun restrains them and prevents the blood from
flowing in the streets. They are so mentally and morally deficient that
they would mistake a permit to carry a weapon in self-defense as a
state-sanctioned license to kill at will.

   Did the dire predictions come true? Despite the fact that
Miami and Dade County have severe problems with the drug trade, the
homicide rate fell in Florida following enactment of this law, as it did
in Oregon following enactment of similar legislation there. There are,
in addition, several documented cases of new permit holders successfully
using their weapons to defend themselves. Information from the Florida
Department of State shows that, from the beginning of the program in
1987 through June 1993, 160,823 permits have been issued, and only 530,
or about 0.33 percent of the applicants, have been denied a permit for
failure to satisfy the criteria, indicating that the law is benefitting
those whom it was intended to benefit -- the law abiding. Only 16
permits, *less than l/lOOth of 1 percent*, have been revoked due to the
post-issuance commission of a crime involving a firearm.

   The Florida legislation has been used as a model for
legislation adopted by Oregon, Idaho, Montana, and Mississippi. There
are, in addition, seven other states (Maine, North and South Dakota,
Utah, Washington, West Virginia and, with the exception of cities with a
population in excess of 1 million, Pennsylvania) which provide that
concealed-carry permits must be issued to law-abiding citizens who
satisfy various objective criteria. Finally, no permit is required at
all in Vermont. Altogether, then, there are thirteen states in which
law-abiding citizens who wish to carry arms to defend themselves may do
so. While no one appears to have compiled the statistics from all of
these jurisdictions, there is certainly an ample data base for those
seeking the truth about the trustworthiness of law-abiding citizens who
carry firearms.

   Other evidence also suggests that armed citizens are very
responsible in using guns to defend themselves. Florida State University
criminologist Gary Kleck, using surveys and other data, has determined
that armed citizens defend their lives or property with firearms against
criminals approximately 1 million times a year. In 98 percent of these
instances, the citizen merely brandishes the weapon or fires a warning
shot. Only in 2 percent of the cases do citizens actually shoot their
assailants. In defending themselves with their firearms, armed citizens
kill 2,000 to 3,000 criminals each ye
ar, three times the number killed
by the police. A nationwide study by Kates, the constitutional lawyer
and criminologist, found that only 2 percent of civilian shootings
involved an innocent person mistakenly identified as a criminal. The
"error rate" for the police, however, was 11 percent, over five times as
high.

   It is simply not possible to square the numbers above and the
experience of Florida with the notions that honest, law-abiding gun
owners are borderline psychopaths itching for an excuse to shoot
someone, vigilantes eager to seek out and summarily execute the lawless,
or incompetent fools incapable of determining when it is proper to use
lethal force in defense of their lives. Nor upon reflection should these
results seem surprising. Rape, robbery, and attempted murder are not
typically actions rife with ambiguity or subtlety, requiring special
powers of observation and great book-learning to discern. When a man
pulls a knife on a woman and says, "You're coming with me," her judgment
that a crime is being committed is not likely to be in error. There is
little chance that she is going to shoot the wrong person. It is the
police, because they are rarely at the scene of the crime when it
occurs, who are more likely to find themselves in circumstances where
guilt and innocence are not so clear-cut, and in which the probability
for mistakes is higher.


           Arms and liberty

   Classical republican philosophy has long recognized the criti-
cal relationship between personal liberty and the possession of arms by
a people ready and willing to use them. Political theorists as
dissimilar as Niccolo Machiavelli, Sir Thomas More, James Harrington,
Algernon Sidney, John Locke, and Jean-Jacques Rousseau all shared the
view that the possession of arms is vital for resisting tyranny, and
that to be disarmed by one's government is tantamount to being enslaved
by it. The possession of arms by the people is the ultimate warrant that
government governs only with the consent of the governed. As
tes has
shown, the Second Amendment is as much a product of this political
philosophy as it is of the American experience in the Revolutionary War.
Yet our conservative elite has abandoned this aspect of republican
theory. Although our conservative pundits recognize and embrace gun
owners as allies in other arenas, their battle for gun rights is
desultory. The problem here is not a statist utopianism, although
goodness knows that liberals are not alone in the confidence they have
in the state's ability to solve society's problems. Rather, the problem
seems to lie in certain cultural traits shared by our conservative and
liberal elites.

   One such trait is an abounding faith in the power of the word.
The failure of our conservative elite to defend the second Amendment
stems in great measure from an overestimation of the power of the rights
set forth in the First Amendment, and a general undervaluation of
action. Implicit in calls for the repeal of the Second Amendment is the
assumption that our First Amendment rights are sufficient to preserve
our liberty. The belief is that liberty can be preserved as long as men
freely speak their minds; that there is no tyranny or abuse that can
survive being exposed in the press; and that the truth need only be
disclosed for the culprits to be shamed. The people will act, and the
truth shall set us, and keep us, free.

   History is not kind to this belief, tending rather to support
the view of Hobbes, Machiavelli, and other republican theorists that
only people willing and able to defend themselves can preserve their
liberties. While it may be tempting and comforting to believe that the
existence of mass electronic communication has forever altered the
balance of power between the state and its subjects, the belief has
certainly not been tested by time, and what little history there is in
the age of mass communication is not especially encouraging. The camera,
radio, and press are mere tools and, like guns, can be used for good or
ill. Hitler, after all, was a masterful orator, used radio to very good
effect, and is well known to have pioneered and exploited the propaganda
opportunities afforded by film. And then, of course, there were the
Brownshirts, who knew very well how to quell dissent among
intellectuals.


         Polite society

   In addition to being enamored of the power of words, our
conservative elite shares with liberals the notion that an armed society
is just not "civilized" or progressive, that massive gun ownership is a
blot on our civilization. This association of personal disarmament with
civilized behavior is one of the great unexamined beliefs of our time.

   Should you read English literature from the sixteenth through
nineteenth centuries, you will discover numerous references to the fact
that a gentleman, especially when out at night or traveling, armed
himself with a sword or a pistol against the chance of encountering a
highwayman or other such predator. This does not appear to have shocked
the ladies accompanying him. True, for the most part there were no
police in those days, but we have already addressed the notion that the
presence of the police absolves people of the responsibility to look
after their safety, and in any event the existence of the police cannot
be said to have reduced crime to negligible levels.

   It is by no means obvious why it is "civilized" to permit
oneself to fall easy prey to criminal violence, and to permit criminals
to continue unobstructed in their evil ways. While it may be that a
society in which crime is so rare that no one ever needs to carry a
weapon is "civilized," a society that stigmatizes the carrying of
weapons by the law-abiding -- because it distrusts its citizens more
than it fears rapists, robbers, and murderers -- certainly cannot claim
this distinction. Perhaps the notion that defending oneself with lethal
force is not civilized arises from the view that violence is always
wrong, or the view that each human being is of such intrinsic worth that
it is wrong to kill anyone under any circumstances. The necessary
implication of these propositions, however, is that life is not worth
defending. Far from being "civilized," the beliefs that counterviolence
and killing are always wrong are an invitation to the spread of
barbarism. Such beliefs announce loudly and clearly that those who do
not respect the lives and property of others will rule over those who
do.

   In truth, one who believes it wrong to arm himself against
criminal violence shows contempt of God's gift of life (or, in modern
parlance, does not properly value himself), does not live up to his
responsibilities to his family and community, and proclaims himself
mentally and morally deficient, because he does not trust himself to
behave responsibly. In truth, a state that deprives its law-abiding
citizens of the means to effectively defend themselves is not civilized
but barbarous, becoming an accomplice of murderers, rapists, and thugs
and revealing its totalitarian nature by its tacit admission that the
disorganized, random havoc created by criminals is far less a threat
than are men and women who believe themselves free and independent, and
act accordingly.

   While gun control proponents and other advocates of a kinder,
gentler society incessantly decry our "armed society," in truth we do
not live in an armed society. We live in a society in which violent
criminals and agents of the state habitually carry weapons, and in which
many law-abiding citizens own firearms but do not go about armed.
Department of Justice statistics indicate that 87 percent of all violent
crimes occur outside the home. Essentially, although tens of millions
own firearms, we are an unarmed society.


          Take back the night

   Clearly the police and the courts are not providing a
significant brake on criminal activity. While liberals call for more
poverty, education, and drug treatment programs, conservatives take a
more direct tack. George Will advocates a massive increase in the number
of police and a shift toward "community based policing." Meanwhile, the
NRA and many conservative leaders call for laws that would require
violent criminals serve at least 85 percent of their sentences and would
place repeat offenders permanently behind bars.

   Our society suffers greatly from the beliefs that only
official action is legitimate and that the state is the source of our
earthly salvation. Both liberal and conservative prescriptions for
violent crime suffer from the "not in my job description" school of
thought regarding the responsibilities of the law-abiding citizen, and
from an overestimation of the ability of the state to provide society's
moral moorings. As long as law-abiding citizens assume no personal
responsibility for combatting crime, liberal and conservative programs
will fail to contain it.

   Judging by the numerous articles about concealed-carry in gun
magazines, the growing number of products advertised for such purpose,
and the increase in the number of concealed-carry applications in states
with mandatory-issuance laws, more and more people, including growing
numbers of women, are carrying firearms for self-defense. Since there
are still many states in which the issuance of permits is discretionary
and in which law enforcement officials routinely deny applications, many
people have been put to the hard choice between protecting their lives
or respecting the law. Some of these people have learned the hard way,
by being the victim of a crime, or by seeing a friend or loved one
raped, robbed, or murdered, that violent crime can happen to anyone,
anywhere at anytime, and that crime is not about sex or property but
life, liberty, and dignity.

   The laws proscribing concealed-carry of firearms by honest,
law-abiding citizens breed nothing but disrespect for the law. As the
Founding Fathers knew well, a government that does not trust its honest,
law-abiding, taxpaying citizens with the means of self-defense is not
itself worthy of trust. Laws disarming honest citizens proclaim that the
government is the maste
r, not the servant, of the people. A federal law
along the lines of the Florida statute -- overriding all contradictory
state and local laws and acknowledging that the carrying of firearms by
law-abiding citizens is a privilege and immunity of citizenship -- is
needed to correct the outrageous conduct of state and local officials
operating under discretionary licensing systems.

   What we certainly do not need is more gun control. Those who
call for the repeal of the Second Amendment so that we can really begin
controlling firearms betray a serious misunderstanding of the Bill of
Rights. The Bill of Rights does not grant rights to the people, such
that its repeal would legitimately confer upon government the powers
otherwise proscribed. The Bill of Rights is the list of the fundamental,
inalienable rights, endowed in man by his Creator, that define what it
means to be a free and independent people, the rights which must exist
to ensure that government governs only with the consent of the people.

   At one time this was even understood by the Supreme Court. In
*United States v. Cruikshank* (1876), the first case in which the Court
had an opportunity to interpret the Second Amendment, it stated that the
right confirmed by the Second Amendment "is not a right granted by the
constitution. Neither is it in any manner dependent upon that instrument
for its existence." The repeal of the Second Amendment would no more
render the outlawing of firearms legitimate than the repeal of the due
process clause of the Fifth Amendment would authorize the government to
imprison and kill people at will. A government that abrogates any of the
Bill of Rights, with or without majoritarian approval, forever acts
illegitimately, becomes tyrannical, and loses the moral right to govern.

   This is the uncompromising understanding reflected in the
warning that America's gun owners will not go gently into that good,
utopian night: "You can have my gun when you pry it from my cold, dead
hands." While liberals take this statement as evidence of the
retrograde, violent nature of gun owners, we gun owners hope that
liberals hold equally strong sentiments about their printing presses,
word processors, and television cameras. The republic depends upon
fervent devotion to all our fundamental rights.

                             --end--
