[For anyone coming here from a direct request, I strongly recommend that
you click here to see a far more complete page dealing with our writings
on network effects, path dependence, the Microsoft Antitrust case, and
our forthcoming book].

I apologize for any typo's. I lost the computer file used for this paper
and had to scan it in with some resulting errors. 

(Journal of Law & Economics vol. XXXIII (April 1990)] 

THE FABLE OF THE KEYS*
S. J. LIEBOWITZ and STEPHEN E. MARGOLIS 
1. INTRODUCTlON
The term 'standard' can refer to any social convention (standard of
conduct, legal standards), but it most often refers to conventions that
require exact uniformity (standards of measurement, computer operating
systems). Current efforts to control the development of high-resolution
television, multitasking computer-operating systems, and videotaping
formats have heightened interest in standards. 

The economic literature on standards has focused recently on the
possibility of market failure with respect to the choice of a standard.
In its strongest form, the argument is essentially this: an established
standard can persist over a challenger, even where all users prefer a
world dominated by the challenger, if users are unable to coordinate
their choices. For example, each of us might prefer to have Beta-format
videocassette recorders as long as prerecorded Beta tapes continue to be
produced, but individually we do not buy Beta machines because we don't
think enough others will buy Beta machines to sustain the prerecorded
tape supply. I don't buy a Beta format machine because I think that you
won't you don't buy one because you think that I won't. In the end, we
both turn out to be correct, but we are both worse off than we might
have been. This, of course, is a catch-22 that we might suppose to be
common in the economy. There will be no cars until there are gas
stations there will be no gas stations until there are cars. Without
some way out of this conundrum, joyriding can never become a favorite
activity of teenagers.1 

The logic of these economic traps and conundrums is impeccable as far as
it goes, but we would do well to consider that these traps are sometimes
escaped in the market. Obviously, gas stations and automobiles do exist,
so participants in the market must use some technique to unravel such
conundrums. If this catch-22 is to warrant our attention as an empirical
issue, at a minimum we would hope to see at least one real-world example
of it. In the economics literature on standards,2 the popular real-world
example of this market failure is the standard Qwerty typewriter
keyboard 3 and its competition with the rival Dvorak keyboard.4 This
example is noted frequently in newspaper and magazine reports, seems to
be generally accepted as true, and was brought to economists' attention
by the papers of Paul David.5 According to the popular story, the
keyboard invented by August Dvorak, a professor of education at the
University of Washington, is vastly superior to the Qwerty keyboard
developed by Christopher Sholes that is now in common use. We are to
believe that, although the Dvorak keyboard is vastly superior to Qwerty,
virtually no one trains on Dvorak because there are too few Dvorak
machines, and there are virtually no Dvorak machines because there are
too few Dvorak typists. 

This article examines the history, economics, and ergonomics of the
typewriter keyboard. We show that David's version of the history of the
market's rejection of Dvorak does not report the true history, and we
present evidence that the continued use of Qwerty is efficient given the
current understanding of keyboard design. We conclude that the example
of the Dvorak keyboard is what beehives and lighthouses were for earlier
market-failure fables. It is an example of market failure that will not
withstand rigorous examination of the historical record.6 

II. SOME ECONOMICS OF STANDARDS
Some standards change over time without being impaired as social
conventions. Languages for example, evolve over time, adding words and
practices that are useful and winnowing features that have lost their
purpose. Other standards are inherently inflexible. Given current
technologies, it won t do, for example, for broadcast frequencies to
drift the way that orchestral tuning has. A taste for a slightly larger
centimeter really can t be accommodated by a sequence of independent
decisions the way that increased use of contractions in academic writing
cam Obviously. if standards can evolve at low cost, they would be
expected to evolve into the forms that are most efficient (in the eyes
of those adopting the standards). Conversely, an inappropriate standard
is most likely to have some permanence where evolution is costly. 

In a recent article on standards, Joseph Farrell and Garth Saloner
present a formal exploration of the difficulties associated with
changing from one standard to another.7 They construct hypothetical
circumstances that might lead to market failure with respect to
standards. To refer to the condition in which a superior standard is not
adopted, they coin the phrase excess inertia. Excess inertia is a type
of externality: each nonadopter of the new standard imposes costs on
every other potential user of the new standard. In the case of excess
inertia, the new standard can be clearly superior to the old standard,
and the sum of the private costs of switching to the new standard can be
less than the sum of the private benefits, and yet the switch does not
occur. This is to be differentiated from the far more common invention
of new standards superior to the old, but for which the costs of
switching are too high to make the switch practicable. Users of the old
standard may regret their choice of that standard, but their continued
use of the old standard is not inefficient: would it not be foolish to
lay all regrets at the doorstep of externalities? 

Farrell and Saloner's construct is useful because it shows the
theoretical possibility of a market failure and also demonstrates the
role of information. There is no possibility of excess inertia in their
model if all participants can communicate perfectly. In this regard,
standards are not unlike other externalities in that costs of
transacting are essential. Thus, standards can be understood within the
framework that Coase offered decades ago.8 

By their nature, this model and others like it must ignore many factors
in the markets they explore. Adherence to an inferior standard in the
presence of a superior one represents a loss of some sort: such a loss
implies a profit opportunity for someone who can figure out a means of
internalizing the externality and appropriating some of the value made
available from changing to the superior standard. Furthermore,
institutional factors such as head starts from being first on the
market, patent and copyright law, brand names, tie-in sales, discounts,
and so on, can also lead to appropriation possibilities (read "profit
opportunities") for entrepreneurs, and with these opportunities we
expect to see activity set in motion to internalize the externalities.
The greater the gap in performance between two standards, the greater
are these profit opportunities, and the more likely that a move to the
efficient standard will take place. As a result, a clear example of
excess inertia is apt to be very hard to find. Observable instances in
which a dramatically inferior standard prevails are likely to be
short-lived, imposed by authority, or fictional. 

The creator of a standard is a natural candidate to internalize the
externality.9 If a standard can be ''owned," the advantage of the
standard can be appropriated. at least in part, by the owner. Dvorak,
for example, patented his keyboard. An owner with the prospect of
appropriating substantial benefits from a new standard would have an
incentive to share some of the costs of switching to a new standard.
This incentive gives rise to a variety of internalizing tactics.
Manufacturers of new products sometimes offer substantial discounts to
early adopters, offer guarantees of satisfaction or make products
available on a rental basis. Sometimes manufacturers offer rebates to
buyers who turn in equipment based on old standards, thus discriminating
in price between those who have already made investments in a standard
and those who have not. Internalizing tactics can be very simple: some
public utilities once supplied light bulbs. and some UHF television
stations still offer free UHF indoor antennas. In many industries firms
provide subsidized or free training to assure an adequate supply of
operators. Typewriter manufacturers were an important source of trained
typists for at least the first fifty years of that technology.10 

Another internalizing tactic is convertibility. Suppliers of
new-generation computers occasionally offer a service to convert files
to new formats. Cable-television companies have offered hardware and
services to adapt old televisions to new antenna systems for an interim
period. Of interest in the present context. for a time before and after
the Second World War typewriter manufacturers offered to convert Qwerty
typewriters to Dvorak for a very small fee.11 

All of these tactics tend to unravel the apparent trap of an inefficient
standard. but there are additional conditions that can contribute to the
ascendancy of the efficient standard. An important one is the growth of
the activity that uses the standard. If a market is growing rapidly the
number of users who have made commitments to any standard is small
relative to the number of future users. Sales of audiocassette players
were barely hindered by their incompatibility with the reel-to-reel or
eight-track players that preceded them. Sales of sixteen-bit computers
were scarcely hampered by their incompatibility with the disks or
operating systems of eight-bit computers. 

Another factor that must be addressed is the initial competition among
rival standards. If standards are chosen largely through the influence
of those who are able to internalize the value of standards we would
expect in Darwinian fashion the prevailing standard to be the fittest
economic competitor. Previous keyboard histories have acknowledged the
presence of rivals but they seem to view competition as a process
leading to results indistinguishable from pure chance. 

Consideration of the many complicating factors present in the market
suggests that market failure in standards is not as compelling as many
of the abstract models seem to suggest. Theoretical abstraction presents
candidates for what might be important, but only empirical verification
can determine if these abstract models have anything to do with reality.

III. THE CASE FOR THE SUPERIORITY OF THE DVORAK KEYBOARD
Paul David introduces economists to the conventional story of the
development and persistence of the current standard keyboard, known as
the Universal. or Qwerty, keyboard.12 The key features of that story are
as follows. The operative patent for the typewriter was awarded in 1868
to Christopher Latham Sholes, who continued to develop the machine for
several years. Among the problems that Sholes and his associates
addressed was the jamming of the type bars when certain combinations of
keys were struck in very close succession. As a partial solution to this
problem, Sholes arranged his keyboard so that the keys most likely to be
struck in close succession were approaching the type point from opposite
sides of the machine. Since Qwerty was designed to accomplish this now
obsolete mechanical requirement, maximizing speed was not an explicit
objective. Some authors even claim that the keyboard is actually
configured to minimize speed since decreasing speed would have been one
way to avoid the jamming of the typewriter. At the time, however, a
two-finger hunt-and-peck method was contemplated, so the keyboard speed
envisioned was quite different from touch-typing speeds. 

The rights to the Sholes patent were sold to E. Remington & Sons in
early 1873. The Remingtons added further mechanical improvements and
began commercial production in late 1873. 

A watershed event in the received version of the Qwerty story is a
typing contest held in Cincinnati on July 25, 1888. Frank McGurrin, a
court stenographer from Salt Lake City, who was apparently the first to
memorize the keyboard and use touch-typing, won a decisive victory over
Louis Taub. Taub used the hunt-and-peck method on a Caligraph, a machine
that used seventy-two keys to provide upper- and lower-case letters.
According to popular history, the event established once and for all
that the Remington typewriter, with its Qwerty keyboard, was technically
superior. More important, the contest created an interest in
touch-typing, an interest directed at the Qwerty arrangement.
Reportedly, no one else at that time had skills that could even approach
McGurrin's, so there was no possibility of countering the claim that the
Remington keyboard arrangement was efficient. McGurrin participated in
typing contests and demonstrations throughout the country and became
something of a celebrity. His choice of the Remington keyboard which may
well have been arbitrary contributed to the establishment of the
standard. So it was. according to the popular telling that a keyboard
designed to solve a short-lived mechanical problem became the standard
used daily by millions of typists.13 

In 1936, August Dvorak patented the Dvorak Simplified Keyboard (DSK)
claiming that it dramatically reduced the finger movement necessary for
typing by balancing the load between hands and loading the stronger
fingers more heavily. Its inventors claimed advantages of greater speed
reduced fatigue and easier learning. These claims have been accepted by
most commentators including David who refers. without citation to
experiments done by the U.S. Navy that had shown that the increased
efficiency obtained with the DSK would amortize the cost of retraining a
group of typists within ten days of their subsequent full-time
employment.14 In spite of its claimed advantages the Dvorak keyboard has
never found much acceptance. 

This story is the basis of the claim that the current use of the Qwerty
keyboard is a market failure. The claim continues that a beginning
typist will not choose to train in Dvorak because Dvorak machines are
likely to be difficult to find and offices will not equip with Dvorak
machines because there is no available pool of typists. 

This is an ideal example. The number of dimensions of performance are
few and in these dimensions the Dvorak keyboard appears overwhelmingly
superior. These very attributes however imply that the forces to adopt
this superior standard should also be very strong. It is the failure of
these forces to prevail that warrants our critical examination.

IV. THE MYTH OF DVORAK
Farrell and Saloner mention the typewriter keyboard as a clear example
of market failure.15 So too does the textbook by Tirole.16 Both works
cite David's article as the authority on this subject. Yet there are
many aspects of the Qwerty-versus-Dvorak fable that do not survive
scrutiny. First, the claim that Dvorak is a better keyboard is supported
only by evidence that is both scant and suspect. Second, studies in the
ergonomics literature find no significant advantage for Dvorak that can
be deemed scientifically reliable. Third, the competition among
producers of typewriters, out of which the standard emerged, was far
more vigorous than is commonly reported. Fourth, there were far more
typing contests than just the single Cincinnati contest. These contests
provided ample opportunity to demonstrate the superiority of alternative
keyboard arrangements. That Qwerty survived significant challenges early
in the history of typewriting demonstrates that it is at least among the
reasonably fit, even if not the fittest that can be imagined.

A. GAPS IN THE EVIDENCE FOR DVORAK
Like most of the historians of the typewriter,17 David seems to assume
that Dvorak is decisively superior to Qwerty. He never questions this
assertion, and he consistently refers to the Qwerty standard as
inferior. His most tantalizing evidence is his undocumented account of
the U.S. Navy experiments. After recounting the claims of the Navy
study. he adds ''if as Apple advertising copy says, DSK 'lets you type
20 to 40% faster- why did this superior design meet essentially the same
resistance as the previous seven improvements on the Qwerty typewriter
keyboard?''18 

Why indeed? The survival of Qwerty is surprising to economists only in
the presence of a demonstrably superior rival. David uses Qwerty's
survival to demonstrate the nature of path dependency, the importance of
history for economists. and the inevitable oversimplification of reality
imposed by theory. Several theorists use his historical evidence to
claim empirical relevance for their versions of market failure. But on
what foundation does all this depend? All we get from David is an
undocumented assertion and some advertising copy. 

The view that Dvorak is superior is widely held. This view can be traced
to a few key sources. A book published by Dvorak and several co-authors
in 1936 included some of Dvorak s own scientific inquiry.19 Dvorak and
his co-authors compared the typing speed achieved in four different and
completely separate experiments. conducted by various researchers for
various purposes.20 One of these experiments examined the typing speed
on the Dvorak keyboard and three examined typing speed on the Qwerty
keyboard. The authors claimed that these studies established that
students learn Dvorak faster than they learn Qwerty. A serious criticism
of their methodology is that the various studies that they compared used
students of different ages and abilities (for example students learning
Dvorak in grades 7 and 8 at the University of Chicago Lab School were
compared with students in conventional high schools), in different
school systems taking different tests and in classes that met for
different periods of time. Still more serious is that they did not
stipulate whether their choice of studies was a random sample or the
full population of available studies. So their study really establishes
only that it is possible to find studies in which students learning to
type on Qwerty keyboards appear to have progressed less rapidly in terms
of calendar time than Dvorak s students did on his keyboard. Even in
this Dvorak study however the evidence is mixed as to whether students
as they progress. retain an advantage when using the Dvorak keyboard
since the differences seem to diminish as typing speed increases. 

In general it is desirable to have independent evaluation and here the
objectivity of Dvorak and his co-authors seems particularly open to
question. Their book is more in the vein of an inspirational tract than
a scientific work. Consider the following taken from their chapter about
relative keyboard performances): 

The bare recital to you of a few simple facts should suffice to indict
the available spatial pattern that is so complacently entitled the
universal [Qwerty] keyboard. Since when was the universe lopsided? The
facts will not be stressed, since you may finally surmount most of the
ensuing handicaps of this [Qwerty] keyboard. Just enough facts will be
paraded to lend you double assurance that for many of the errors that
you will inevitably make and for much of the discouraging delay you will
experience in longed-for speed gains. you are not to blame. if you grow
indignant over the beginner s role of innocent victim. remember that a
little emotion heightens determination.21 Analysis of the present
keyboard is so destructive that an improved arrangement is a modern
imperative. Isn't it obvious that faster. more accurate, less fatiguing
typing can be attained in much less learning time provided a simplified
keyboard is taught. 22 The Navy study, which seems to have been the
basis for some of the more extravagant claims of Dvorak advocates, is
also flawed. Arthur Foulke, Sholes's biographer, and a believer in the
superiority of the Dvorak keyboard, points out several discrepancies in
the reports coming out of the Navy studies. He cites an Associated Press
report of October 7, 1943, to the effect that a new typewriter keyboard
allowed typists to ''zip along at 180 words per minute'' but then adds
'However, the Navy Department, in a letter to the author October I4,
1943 by Lieutenant Commander W. Marvin McCarthy said that it had no
record of and did not conduct such a speed test, and denied having made
an official announcement to that effect.''23 Foulke also reports a
Business Week story of October 16, 1943, that reports a speed of 108,
not 180, words per minute. 

We were able to obtain, with difficulty, a copy of the 1944 Navy
report.24 The report does not state who conducted the study. It consists
of two parts, the first based on an experiment conducted in July of 1944
and the second based on an experiment conducted in October of that year.
The report's foreword states that two prior experiments had been
conducted but that "the first two groups were not truly fair tests." We
are not told the results of the early tests. 

The first of the reported experiments consisted of the retraining of
fourteen Navy typists on newly overhauled Dvorak keyboards for two hours
a day. We are not told how the subjects were chosen, but it does not
appear to be based on a random process. At least twelve of these
individuals had previously been Qwerty typists with an average speed of
thirty-two words per minute although the Navy defined competence as
fifty words per minute. The typists had IQs that averaged 98 and
dexterity skills with an average percentile of 65. The study reports
that it took fifty-two hours for typists to catch up to their old speed.
After completing an average of eighty-three hours on the new keyboard,
typing speed had increased to an average of fifty-six net words per
minute compared to their original thirty-two words per minute, a 75
percent increase. 

The second experiment consisted of the retraining of eighteen typists on
the Qwerty keyboard. It is not clear how these typists were picked or
even if members of this group were aware that they were part of an
experiment. We are not told whether this training was performed in the
same manner as the first experiment (the Navy retrained people from time
to time and this may just have been one of these groups). The
participants IQs and dexterity skills are not reported. It is difficult
to have any sense whether this group is a reasonable control for the
first group. The initial typing scores for this group averaged
twenty-nine words per minute but these scores were not measured
identically to those from the first experiment. The report states that
because three typists had net scores of zero words per minute initially.
the beginning and ending speeds were calculated as the average of the
first four typing tests and the average of the last four typing tests.
In contrast, the initial experiment using Dvorak simply used the first
and last test scores. This truncation of the reported values reduced the
measured increase in typing speed on the Qwerty keyboard by a
substantial margin.25 

The measured increase in net typing speed for Qwerty retraining was from
twenty-nine to thirty-seven words per minute (28 percent) after an
average of 158 hours of training, considerably less than the increase
that occurred with the Dvorak keyboard. 

The Navy study concludes that training in Dvorak is much more effective
than retraining in Qwerty. But the experimental design leaves too many
questions for this to be an acceptable finding. Do these results hold
for typists with normal typing skills or only for those far below
average? Were the results for the first group just a regression to the
mean for a group of underperforming typists? How much did the Navy
studies underestimate the value of increased Qwerty retraining due to
the inconsistent measurement? Were the two groups given similar
training? Were the Qwerty typewriters overhauled, as were the Dvorak
typewriters? There are many possible biases in this study. All,
suspiciously, seem to be in favor of the Dvorak design. 

The authors of the Navy study do seem to have their minds made up
concerning the superiority of Dvorak. In discussing the background of
the Dvorak keyboard and prior to introducing the results of the study,
the report claims: ''Indisputably, it is obvious that the Simplified
Keyboard is easier to master than the Standard Keyboard.".26 Later they
refer to Qwerty as an "ox'' and Dvorak as a ''jeep'' and add: ''no
amount of goading the oxen can materially change the end result." 27 

There are other problems of credibility with these Navy studies having
to do with potential conflicts of interest. Foulke 28 identifies Dvorak
as Lieutenant Commander August Dvorak, the Navy's top expert in the
analysis of time and motion studies during World War II. Earle Strong, a
professor at Pennsylvania State University and a one-time chairman of
the Office Machine Section of the American Standards Association,
reports that the 1944 Navy experiment and some Treasury department
experiments performed in 1946 were conducted by Dr. Dvorak.29 We also
know that Dvorak had a financial stake in this keyboard. He owned the
patent on the keyboard and had received at least $130,000 from the
Carnegie Commission for Education for the studies performed while he was
at the University of Washington.30 

But there is more to this story than the weakness of the evidence
reported by the Navy, or Dvorak, or his followers. A 1956 General
Services Administration study by Earle Strong, which was influential in
its time, provides the most compelling evidence against the Dvorak
keyboard.31 This study is ignored in David's history for economists and
is similarly ignored in other histories directed at general audiences.
Strong conducted a carefully controlled experiment designed to examine
the costs and benefits of switching to Dvorak. He concluded that
retraining typists on Dvorak had no advantages over retraining on
Qwerty. 

In the first phase of Strong's experiment ten government typists were
retrained on the Dvorak keyboard. It took well over twenty-five days of
four-hour-a-day training for these typists to catch up to their old
Qwerty speed. (Compare this to the claim David makes about the Navy
study's results that the full retraining costs were recovered in ten
days.) When the typists had finally caught up to their old speed Strong
began the second phase of the experiment. The newly trained Dvorak
typists continued training and a group of ten Qwerty typists began a
parallel program to improve their skills. In this second phase the
Dvorak typists progressed less quickly with further Dvorak training than
did Qwerty typists training on Qwerty keyboards. Thus Strong concluded
that Dvorak training would never be able to amortize its costs. He
recommended that the government provide further training in the Qwerty
keyboard. for Qwerty typists. The information provided by this study was
largely responsible for putting Dvorak to rest as a serious alternative
to Qwerty for those firms and government agencies responsible for
choosing typewriters.32 

Strong's study does leave some questions unanswered. Because it uses
experienced typists it cannot tell us whether beginning Dvorak typists
could be trained more quickly than beginning Qwerty typists. Further,
although one implication of Strong s study is that the ultimate speed
achieved would be greater for Qwerty typists than for Dvorak typists
(since the Qwerty group was increasing the gap over the Dvorak group in
the second phase of the experiment), we cannot be sure that an
experiment with beginning typists would provide the same results.33 

Nevertheless, Strong's study must be taken seriously. It attempts to
control the quality of the two groups of typists and the instruction
they receive. It directly addresses the claims that came out of the Navy
studies, which consider the costs and benefits of retraining. It
directly parallels the decision that a real firm or a real government
agency might face: is it worthwhile to retrain its present typists? The
alleged market failure of the Qwerty keyboard as represented by Farrell
and Saloner's excess inertia is that all firms would change to a new
standard if only they could each be assured that the others would
change. If we accept Strong's findings, it is not a failure to
communicate that keeps firms from retraining its typists or keeps
typists from incurring their own retraining costs. If Strong's study is
correct, it is efficient for current typists not to switch to Dvorak. 

Current proponents of Dvorak have a different view when they assess why
the keyboard has not been more successful. Hisao Yamada, an advocate of
Dvorak who is attempting to influence Japanese keyboard development,
gives a wide-ranging interpretation to the Dvorak keyboard's failure. He
blames the Depression, bad business decisions by Dvorak, World War II,
and the Strong report. He goes on to say: 

There were always those who questioned the claims made by DSK followers.
Their reasons are also manifold. Some suspected the superiority of the
instructions by DSK advocates to be responsible (because they were all
holders of advanced degrees): such a credential of instructors is also
apt to cause the Hawthorne effect. Others maintain that all training
experiments, except the GSA one as noted, were conducted by the DSK
followers, and that the statistical control of experiments was not well
exercised. This may be a valid point. It does not take too long to
realize, however. that it is a major financial undertaking to organize
such an experiment to the satisfaction of statisticians.... The fact
that those Critics were also reluctant to come forth in support of such
experiments . . . may indicate that the true reason of their criticism
lies elsewhere.34 This is one nasty disagreement.35

Nevertheless, Yamada as much as admits that experimental findings
reported by Dvorak and his supporters cannot be assigned much
credibility and that the most compelling claims cited by Yamada for DSK
s superiority come from Dvorak's own work. Much of the other evidence
Yamada uses to support his views of DSK s superiority actually can be
used to make a case against Dvorak. Yamada refers to a 1952 Australian
post office study that showed no advantages for DSK when it was first
conducted. It was only after adjustments were made in the test procedure
(to remove psychological impediments to superior performance) that DSK
did better.36 He cites a 1973 study based on six typists at Western
Electric where after 104 hours of training on DSK, typists were 2.6
percent faster than they had been on Qwerty.37 Similarly Yamada reports
that in a 1978 study at Oregon State University after 100 hours of
training typists were up to 97.6 percent of their old Qwerty speed.38
Both of these retraining times are similar to those reported by Strong
and not to those in the Navy study. Yamada however thinks the studies
themselves support Dvorak.39 But unlike the Strong study neither of
these studies included parallel retraining on Qwerty keyboards. As the
Strong study points out even experienced Qwerty typists increase their
speed on Qwerty if they are given additional training. Even if that
problem is ignored the possible advantages of Dvorak are all much weaker
than those reported from the Navy study.

B. EVIDENCE FROM THE ERGONOMICS LITERATURE 
The most recent studies of the relative merits of keyboards are found in
the ergonomics literature. These studies provide evidence that the
advantages of the Dvorak is either small or nonexistent. For example A.
Miller and J. C. Thomas conclude that "the fact remains however that no
alternative has shown a realistically significant advantage over the
Qwerty for general purpose typing."40 In two studies based on analysis
of hand-and-finger motions R. F. Nickells Jr. finds that Dvorak is 6.2
percent faster than Qwerty,41 and R. Kinkhead finds only a 2.3 percent
advantage for Dvorak.42 Simulation studies by Donald Norman and David
Rumelhart find similar results: 

In our studies . . . we examined novices typing on several different
arrangements of alphabetically organized keyboards, the Sholes (Qwerty)
keyboard, and a randomly organized keyboard to control against prior
knowledge of Sholes). There were essentially no differences among the
alphabetic and random keyboards. Novices type slightly faster on the
Sholes keyboard, probably reflecting prior experience with it. We
studied expert typists by using our simulation model. Here, we looked at
the Sholes and Dvorak layouts, as well as several alphabetically
arranged keyboards. The simulation showed that the alphabetically
organized keyboards were between 2% and 9%n slower than the Sholes
keyboard, and the Dvorak keyboard was only about 5% faster than the
Sholes. These figures correspond well to other experimental studies that
compared the Dvorak and Sholes keyboards and to the computations of
Card, Moran, and Newell . . . for comparing these keyboards.... For the
expert typist, the layout of keys makes surprisingly little difference.
There seems no reason to choose Sholes, Dvorak. or alphabetically
organized keyboards over one another on the basis of typing speed. It is
possible to make a bad keyboard layout, however, and two of the
arrangements that we studied can be ruled out.43 These ergonomic studies
are particularly interesting because the claimed advantage of the Dvorak
keyboard has been based historically on the claimed ergonomic advantages
in reduced finger movement. Norman and Rummelhart's discussion offers
clues to why Dvorak does not provide as much of an advantage as its
proponents have claimed. They argue, 

For optimal typing speed. keyboards should be designed so that: 
A. The loads on the right and left hands are equalized. 
B. The load on the home (middle) row is maximized. 
C. The frequency of alternating hand sequences is maximized and the
frequency of same-finger typing is minimized.

The Dvorak keyboard does a good job on these variables, especially A and
B: 67% of the typing is done on the home row and the left-right hand
balance is 47-53%. Although the Sholes (Qwerty) keyboard fails at
conditions A and B (most typing is done on the top row and the balance
between the two hands is 57% and 43%), the policy to put successively
typed keys as far apart as possible favors factor C, thus leading to
relatively rapid typing.44 

The explanation for Norman and Rummelhart's factor C is that during a
keystroke, the idle hand prepares for its next keystroke. Thus Sholes's
decision to solve a mechanical problem through careful keyboard
arrangement may have inadvertently satisfied a fairly important
requirement for efficient typing. 

The consistent finding in the ergonomic studies is that the results
imply no clear advantage for Dvorak. These studies are not explicitly
statistical, yet their negative claim seems analogous to the scientific
caution that one exercises when measured differences are small relative
to unexplained variance. We read these authors as saying that, in light
of the imprecision of method, scientific caution precludes rejection of
the hypothesis that Dvorak and Qwerty are equivalent. At the very least,
the studies indicate that the speed advantage of Dvorak is not anything
like the 20-40 percent that is claimed in the Apple advertising copy
that David cites. Moreover, the studies suggest that there may be no
advantage with the Dvorak keyboard for ordinary typing by skilled
typists. It appears that the principles by which Dvorak ''rationalized"
the keyboard may not have fully captured the actions of experienced
typists largely because typing appears to be a fairly complex activity. 

A final word on all of this comes from Frank McGurrin, the world's first
known touch-typist: 

Let an operator take a new sentence and see how fast he can write it.
Then, after practicing the sentence, time himself again, and he will
find he can write it much faster: and further practice on the particular
sentence will increase the speed on it to nearly or quite double that on
the new matter. Now let the operator take another new sentence, and he
will find his speed has dropped back to about what it was before he
commenced practicing the first sentence. Why is this? The fingers are
capable of the same rapidity. It is because the mind is not so familiar
with the keys.45

Of course, performance in any physical activity can presumably be
improved with practice. But the limitations of typing speed, in
McGurrin's experiment, appear to have something to do with a mental or,
at least, neurological skill and fairly little to do with the
limitations on the speeds at which the fingers can complete their
required motions.

C. TYPEWRITER COMPETITION
The Sholes typewriter was not invented from whole cloth. Yamada reports
that there were fifty-one inventors of prior typewriters, including some
earlier commercially produced typewriters. He states: "Examination of
these materials) reveal that almost all ideas incorporated into Sholes'
machines, if not all, were at one time or another already used by his
predecessors."46 

Remington's early commercial rivals were numerous, offered substantial
variations on the typewriter, and in some cases enjoyed moderate
success. There were plenty of competitors after the Sholes machine came
to market. The largest and most important of these rivals were the Hall,
Caligraph, and Crandall machines. The Yost, another double-keyboard
machine, manufactured by an early collaborator of Sholes, used a
different inking system and was known particularly for its attractive
type. According to production data assembled by Yamada, the machines
were close rivals, and they each sold in large numbers.47 Franz Xavier
Wagner, who also worked on the I873 Remington typewriter, developed a
machine that made the type fully visible as it was being typed. This
machine was offered to, but rejected by, the Union Typewriter Company,
the company formed by the 1893 merger of Remington with six other
typewriter manufacturers.48 In 1895, Wagner joined John T. Underwood to
produce his machine. Their company, which later became Underwood,
enjoyed rapid growth, producing two hundred typewriters per week by
1898.49 Wagner's offer to Union also resulted in the spin-off from Union
of L. C. Smith, who introduced a visible-type machine in 1904.50 This
firm was the forerunner of the Smith-Corona company. 

Two manufacturers offered their own versions of an ideal keyboard:
Hammond in 1893 and Blickensderfer in 1889.51 Each of these machines
survived for a time, and each had certain mechanical advantages.
Blickensderfer later produced what may have been the first portable and
the first electric typewriters. Hammond later produced the Varityper, a
standard office type-composing machine that was the antecedent of
today's desktop publishing. The alternative keyboard machines produced
by these manufacturers came early enough that typewriters and, more
important, touch-typing were still not very popular. The Blickensderfer
appeared within a year of the famous Cincinnati contest that first
publicized touch-typing. 

In the 1880s and 1890s typewriters were generally sold to offices not
already staffed with typists or into markets in which typists were not
readily available. Since the sale of a new machine usually meant
training a new typist, a manufacturer that chose to compete using an
alternative keyboard had an opportunity. As late as 1923, typewriter
manufacturers operated placement services for typists and were an
important source of operators. In the earliest days, typewriter salesmen
provided much of the limited training available to typists.52 Since
almost every sale required the training of a typist, a typewriter
manufacturer that offered a different keyboard was not particularly
disadvantaged. Manufacturers internalized training costs in such an
environment, so a keyboard that allowed more rapid training might have
been particularly attractive. 

Offering alternative keyboards was not a terribly expensive tactic. The
Blickensderfer used a type-bar configuration similar in principle to the
IBM Selectric type ball and, so, could easily offer many different
configurations. The others could create alternative keyboard
arrangements by simply soldering the type to different bars and
attaching the keys to different levers. So apparently the problem of
implementing the conversion was not what kept the manufacturers from
changing keyboards. 

The rival keyboards did ultimately fail, of course.53 But the Qwerty
keyboard cannot have been so well established at the time the rival
key-boards were first offered that they were rejected because they were
non-standard. Manufacturers of typewriters sought and promoted any
technical feature that might give them an advantage in the market.
Certainly shorter training and greater speed would have been an
attractive selling point for a typewriter with an alternative keyboard.
Neither can it be said that the rival keyboards were doomed by inferior
mechanical characteristics because these companies went on to produce
successful and innovative, though Qwerty-based, typing machines. Thus we
cannot attribute our inheritance of the Qwerty keyboard to a lack of
alternative keyboards or the chance association of this keyboard
arrangement with the only mechanically adequate typewriter.

D. TYPING COMPETITIONS
Typing competitions provided another test of the Qwerty keyboard. These
competitions are somewhat underplayed in the conventional history.
David's history mentions only the Cincinnati contest. Wilfred Beeching's
history, which has been very influential, also mentions only the
Cincinnati contest and attaches great importance to it: "Suddenly. to
their horror. it dawned upon both the Remington Company and the
Caligraph company officials, torn between pride and despair, that
whoever won was likely to put the other out of business!" Beeching
refers to the contest as having established the four-bank keyboard of
the Remington machine ''once and for all."54 

In fact. typing contests and demonstrations of speed were fairly common
during this period. They involved many different machines, with various
manufacturers claiming to hold the speed record. 

Under the headline ''Wonderful Typing," the New York Times 55 reported
on a typing demonstration given the previous day in Brooklyn by a Mr.
Thomas Osborne of Rochester, New York. The Times reported that Mr.
Osborne ''holds the championship for fast typing, having accoomplished
126 words a minute at Toronto August 13 last.'' In the Brooklyn
demonstration he typed 142 words per minute in a five-minute test, 179
words per minute in a single minute. and 198 words per minute for 30
seconds. He was accompanied by a Mr. George McBride, who typed 129 words
per minute blindfolded. Both men used the non-Qwerty Caligraph machine.
The Times offered that "the Caligraph people have chosen a very pleasant
and effective way of proving not only the superior speed of their
machine, but the falsity of reports widely published that writing
blindfolded was not feasible on that instrument.56 Note that this was
just months after McGurrin's Cincinnati victory.

There were other contests and a good number of victories for McGurrin
and Remington. On August 2, 1888, the Times reported a New York contest
won by McGurrin with a speed of 95.8 words per minute in a five-minute
dictation.58 In light of the received history, according to which
McGurrin is the only person to have memorized the keyboard, it is
interesting to note the strong performance of his rivals. Miss May Orr
typed 95.2 words per minute, and M. C. Grant typed 93.8 words per
minute. Again, on January 9, 1889, the Times reported a McGurrin victory
under the headline ''Remington Still Leads the List."58 

We should probably avoid the temptation to compare the Caligraph speed
with the Remington speeds, given the likely absence of any serious
attempts at standardizing the tests. Nevertheless, it appears that the
issue of speed was not so readily conceded as is reported in Beeching's
history. Typists other than McGurrin could touch-type, and machines
other than Remington were competitive. History has largely ignored
events that did not build toward the eventual domination by Qwerty. This
focus may be reasonable for the history of the Remington Company or the
Qwerty keyboard. But if we are interested in whether the Qwerty
keyboard's existence can be attributed to more than happenstance or an
inventor's whim, these events do matter.

V. CONCLUSIONS
The trap constituted by an obsolete standard may be quite fragile.
Because real-world situations present opportunities for agents to profit
from changing to a superior standard, we cannot simply rely on an
abstract model to conclude that an inferior standard has persisted. Such
a claim demands empirical examination. 

As an empirical example of market failure, the typewriter keyboard has
much appeal. The objective of the keyboard is fairly straightforward: to
get words onto the recording medium. There are no conflicting objectives
to complicate the interpretation of performance. But the evidence in the
standard history of Qwerty versus Dvorak is flawed and incomplete.
First, the claims for the superiority of the Dvorak keyboard are
suspect. The most dramatic claims are traceable to Dvorak himself, and
the best-documented experiments, as well as recent ergonomic studies,
suggest little or no advantage for the Dvorak keyboard.59 

Second, by ignoring the vitality and variety of the rivals to the
Remington machine with its Qwerty keyboard, the received history implies
that Sholes's and McGurrin's choices, made largely as matters of
immediate expediency, established the standard without ever being
tested. More careful reading of historical accounts and checks of
original sources reveal a different picture: there were touch-typists
other than McGurrin: there were competing claims of speed records: and
Remington was not so well established that a keyboard offering
significant advantages could not have gained a foothold. If the fable is
to carry lessons about the workings of markets, we need to know more
than just who won. The victory of the tortoise is a different story
without the hare. 

There is more to this disagreement than a difference in the evidence
that was revealed by our search of the historical record. Our reading of
this history reflects a more fundamental difference in views of how
markets, and social systems more generally, function. David's overriding
point is that economic theory must be informed by events in the world.
On that we could not agree more strongly. But ironically. or perhaps
inevitably, David's interpretation of the historical record is dominated
by his own implicit model of markets, a model that seems to underlie
much economic thinking. In that model an exogenous set of goods is
offered for sale at a price, take it or leave it. There is little or no
role for entrepreneurs. There generally are no guarantees, no rental
markets, no mergers, no loss-leader pricing, no advertising, no
marketing research. When such complicating institutions are
acknowledged, they are incorporated into the model piecemeal. And they
are most often introduced to show their potential to create
inefficiencies, not to show how an excess of benefit over cost may
constitute an opportunity for private gain. 

In the world created by such a sterile model of competition, it is not
surprising that accidents have considerable permanence. In such a world,
embarking on some wrong path provides little chance to jump to an
alternative path. The individual benefits of correcting a mistake are
too small to make correction worthwhile, and there are no agents who
might profit by devising some means of capturing a part of the aggregate
benefits of correction . 

It is also not surprising that in such a world there are a lot of
accidents. Consumers are given very little discretion to avoid starts
down wrong paths. A model may assume that consumers have foresight or
even that they are perfectly rational, but always in a very limited
sense. For example, in the model of Farrell and Saloner, consumers can
predict very well the equilibrium among the two candidate standards. But
they are attributed no ability to anticipate the existence of some
future, better standard. We are not led to ask how the incumbent
standard achieved its status: as in David's telling, "It jes' growed." 

But at some moment, users must commit resources to a standard or wait.
At this moment, they have clear incentives to examine the
characteristics of competing standards. They must suffer the
consequences of a decision to wait, to discard obsolete equipment or
skills, or to continue to function with an inferior standard. Thus, they
have a clear incentive to consider what lies down alternative paths.
Though their ability to anticipate future events may not be perfect,
there is no reason to assume that it is bad relative to any other
observers. 

Finally, it is consistent that, in a world in which mistakes are
frequent and permanent, ''scientific approaches" cannot help but make
big improvements to market outcomes. In such a world, there is ample
room for enlightened reasoning, personified by university professors, to
improve on the consequences of myriad independent decisions. What
credence can possibly be given to a keyboard that has nothing to
accredit it but the trials of a group of mechanics and its adoption by
millions of typists? If we use only sterilized models of markets, or
ignore the vitality of the rivalry that confronts institutions, we
should not be surprised that the historical interpretations that result
are not graced with the truth that Cicero asks of historians.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Footnotes
1 This trap is treated more seriously in the literature on standards
than in other economics literature. This reflects a supposition that
foresight, integration, or appropriation are more difficult in the case
of standards. The current literature fails to explain why these
''externalities'' are particularly relevant for standards. we will have
more to say about this in forthcoming work.

2 See, for example, Joseph Farrell & Garth Saloner, Standardization,
Compatibility, and Innovation, 16 Rand J Econ. 70 l955): Michael L. Katz
& Carl C Shapiro, Network Externalities, Competition, and Compatibility,
25 Am. Econ Rev. 424 1985): and Jean Tirole, The Theory of Industrial
Organization (1988).

3 "Qwerty'' stands for arrangement of letters in the upper left-hand
portion of the keyboard below the numbers This keyboard is also known as
the Sholes, or Universal, keyboard.

4 This is also sometimes known as the DSK keyboard for Dvorak Simplified
Keyboard or the simplified keyboard). As explained below, the keys are
arranged in a different order.

5 Paul A David, Clio and the Economics of QWERTY, 75 Am Econ. Rev. 332
l985): and Paul A. David, Understanding the Economics of QWERTY: The
Necessity of History, in Economic History and the Modern Economist :
William N Parker ed. 1986).

6 See Ronald Coase The Lighthouse in Economics. 17 J. Law Econ. 357
(1974) and Steven N. Cheung, The Fable of the Bees: An Economic
Investigation. 16 J Law & Econ H (1973) Our debt is obvious.

7 Farrell & Saloner. supra note 2.

8 Ronald H Coase. The Problem of Social Cost 3 J Law & Econ. 1 (1960).
Of course. inertia is not necessarily inefficient Some delay in settling
on a standard will mean that relatively more is known about the
associated technology and the standards themselves by the time most
users commit to a technology. Recall the well-known discussion of Harold
Demsetz, Information and Efficiency Another viewpoint 12 J I Law & Econ
1 (1969) on the nature of efficiency. If a God can costlessly cause the
adoption of the correct stand rd any inertia is excessive (inefficient)
in comparison. But it seems ill advised to hold this up as a serious
benchmark Excessive inertia should be defined relative to some
achievable result. Further. some reservation in committing to standards
will allow their creators to optimize standards rather than rushing them
to the market to be first. If the first available standard were always
adopted, then standards, like patents, might generate losses from the
rush to be first. Creators might rush their standards to market, even
where waiting would produce a better and more profitable product.

9 We may ask ourselves why new standards are created if not with the
idea of some pecuniary reward One would hardly expect nonobvious and
costly standards to proliferate like manna from heaven.

10David "Understanding.. p 5 Additionally see Herkimer County Historical
Society. The Story of the Typewriter: l873-192 (l923). which notes that
in the early 1920's a single typewriter company was producing 100.000
typists a year. 11 Arthur Foulke Mr. Typewriter: A biography of
Christopher Latham Sholes 106 (1961), which notes: Present day keyboard
machines may be converted to the simplified Dvorak keyboard in local
typewriter shops. is now available on any typewriter. And it costs as
little as $5 to convert a Standard to a simplified keyboard.

12 David, Clio and the Economics of QWERTY, supra note 5.

13 This history follows David, Clio and the Economics of Qwerty, supra
note 5, but also see Wilfred A Beeching, A Century of the Typewriter
(1974), as an example of an account with the features and emphasis
described here.

14 David, Clio. supra note 5. at 332 If true. this would be quite
remarkable. A converted Sholes typist will be typing so much faster that
whatever the training cost it is repaid every ten days. Counting only
working days this would imply that the investment in retraining repays
itself approximately twenty-three times in a year. Does this seem even
remotely possible? Do firms typically ignore investments with returns in
the range of 2200 percent?

15 Farrell & Saloner. supra note 2.

16 Tirole, supra note 2 at 405. states: "Many observers believe that the
Dvorak keyboard is superior to this Qwerty standard even when retraining
costs are taken into account. However it would be foolish for a firm to
build this alternative keyboard and for secretaries to switch to it
individually". Under some circumstances it might have been foolish for
secretaries and firms to act in this manner but this type of behavior
hardly seems foolish in many real-world situations For example, large
organizations (federal. state. and local governments, Fortune 500
companies, etc.. often have tens of thousands of employees. And these
organizations could undertake the training if the costs really are
compensated in a short time. See notes 11 and 14 supra.

17 For example, see Beeching' .supra note 13, or Foulke, supra note H .

18 David, Understanding. supra note 5, at 34.

19 August Dvorak, Nellie L Merrick, William L Dealy & Gertrude C. Ford,
Typewriting Behavior 1 19361.

20 Id at 226.

21 Id. at 210.

22 Id. at 2217

23 Foulke, supra note 11 at 103.

24 We tried to have the Navy supply us with a copy when our own research
Librarians could not find it. The Navy research librarian had no more
success even though she checked the Navy records, the Martin Luther King
Library. the Library of Congress the National Archives the National
Technical Communication service, etc. we were finally able to locate a
copy held by an organization, Dvorak International. We would like to
thank ,its director, Virginia Russell for her assistance. She believes
that they obtained their copy from the Underwood Company. we would be
more sanguine about the question of the document's history had it been
available in a public archive The copy we received was A Practical
Experiment in Simplified Keyboard Retraining--a Report on the Retraining
of Fourteen Standard Keyboard Typists on the Simplified Keyboard and a
Comparison of Typist Improvement from Training on the standard Keyboard
and Retraining on the Simplified Keyboard. Navy department Division of
Shore Establishments and Civilian Personnel, Department of Services.
Training Section. Washington. D C. (July and October 1944)

25 It is not an innocuous change. We are told that three Qwerty typists
initially scored zero on the typing test but that their scores rose to
twenty-nine, thirteen, and sixteen within four days (at 20). we are also
told that several other typists had similar improvements in the first
four days. These improvements are dismissed as mere testing effects that
the researchers wish to eliminate. But the researchers made no effort to
eliminate the analogous testing effect for the Dvorak typists.
Truncating the measurements to the average of the first four days
reduces the reported speed increases for the three typists with zero
initial speed by at least thirteen, twelve, and fourteen. Assuming the
existence of two other typists with similar size testing effects,
removing this testing effect would reduce the reported speed
improvements by 3.6 words per minute lowering the gain from 46 percent
to 28 percent. The effect of the truncation at the end of the measuring
period cannot be determined with any accuracy but there is no testing
effect be removed at this stage of the experiment after many tests have
been taken. While the apparent effect of these measurement techniques is
significant, the indisputable problem is that they were not applied
equally to the Qwerty and Dvorak typists.

26 Navy. supra note 24. at 2.

27 id. at 23.

28 5 supra, note 11. at 103

29 Earle P. Strong. A Comparative Experiment in Simplified Keyboard
retraining and Standard Keyboard Supplementary Training (US. General
Services Administration I956). However. Yamada. trying to refute
criticisms of Dvorak's keyboard, claims that Dvorak did not conduct
these studies, he only provided the typewriters. See Hisao Yamada, A
Historical Study of Typewriters and Typing Methods: From the Position of
Planning Japanese Parallels, 2 J. Information Processing 175 (1980). He
admits that Dvorak was in the Navy and in Washington when the studies
were conducted but denies any linkage. We do not know whom to believe,
but we are skeptical that Dvorak would not have had a large influence on
these tests, based on the strong circumstantial evidence and given
Foulke's identification of Dvorak as the Navy's top expert on such
matters. Interestingly, Yamada accuses Strong of being biased against
the Dvorak keyboard (at 188). He also impugns Strong s character. He
accuses Strong of refusing to provide other (unnamed researchers with
his data. He also implies that Strong stole money from Dvorak because in
1941, when Strong was a supporter of Dvorak's keyboard, he supposedly
accepted payment from Dvorak to conduct a study of the DSK keyboard
without ever reporting his results to him. 30 Yamada: sup note 29.

31 Strong supra note 29.

32 At the time of Strong s experiment. Dvorak had attracted a good deal
of attention. At least one trade group had taken the position that.
Pending confirmation from the Strong study it would adopt Dvorak as its
new standard See US plans to test New Typewriter, New York Times.
November 1, 1955: Revolution in the Office. New York Times. November 30
1955 key Changes Debated, New York Times June 18. 1956: US. balks at
Teaching Old Typists New Keys, New York Times July 2 1956: and Peter
White,. Pyfgcrt vs. Qwertyuiop, New York Times January 22 1956. at 18.

33 In fact, both the Navy and General Service Administration studies
found that the best typists take the longest time to catch Up to their
old speed and showed the smallest percentage improvement with
retraining.

34 Yamada. supra note 29, at 189.

35 Also see note 29 supra.

36 Yamada, supra note 29, at 185.

37 Id. at 188.

38 Id.

39 Yamada interprets the Oregon study to support the Dvorak keyboard. To
do so he fits an exponential function to the Oregon data and notes that
the limit of the function as hours of training goes to infinity is 17
percent greater than the typist s initial Qwerty speed. This function is
extremely flat, however, and even modest gains appear well outside the
range of the data. A 10 percent gain, for example, would be projected to
occur only after 165 hours of training .

40 A. Miller & J. C. Thomas, Behavioral Issues in the Use of interactive
Systems, 9 Int. J. of Man-Machine Stud. 509 (l977).

41 Cited in Hisao Yamada, Certain Problems Associated with the Design of
input Key-boards for Japanese Writing, in Cognitive Aspects of Skilled
Typewriting 336 (William E. Cooper ed. 1983).

42 Cited in id. at 365.

43 Donald A Norman and David E. Rumelhart Studies of Typing from the LNR
Research Group. in Cognitive Aspects of Skilled typewriting 45, (William
E. Cooper ed. 1983).

44 Id.

45 George C. Mares. The History of the Typewriter (1909).

46 Yamada. supra note 41, at 177.

47 id. at 181.

48 Beeching, supra note 13, at 165.

49 id. at 214.

50 id. at 165.

51 David, Understanding, supra note 5, at 38. Also see Beeching. supra
note 13, at 40, 199. Yamada, supra note 29, at 184. in discussing the
Hammond keyboard arrangement states: "This 'ideal' arrangement was far
better than Qwerty but it did not take root because by then Remington
Schools were already turning out a large number of Qwerty typists every
year." In 1893, Blickenderfer offered a portable typewriter with the
Hammond keyboard.

52 Herkimer County historical Society. supra note 10, at 78.

53 We should also take note of the fact that the Qwerty keyboard,
although invented in the United States. has become the dominant keyboard
throughout the world. Foreign countries, when introduced to typewriters,
need not have adopted this keyboard if superior alternatives existed
since there would not yet have been any typists trained on Qwerty Yet
all other keyboard designs fell before the Qwerty juggernaut. In France
and some other countries, the keyboard is slightly different than the
Qwerty keyboard used in the United states The major difference is that
the top left-hand keys are Azerty that is also what these keyboard
designs are called) and several letters are transposed, but most of the
keys are identical .

54 Beeching supra note 13. at 41.

55 New York Times, February 28, 1889. at 8.

56 id.

57 Id. at 2.

58 Id.

59 See text at notes 30-43. There are several versions of the claim that
a switch to Dvorak would not be worthwhile. The strongest. which we do
not make. is that Qwerty is proven to be the best imaginable keyboard.
Neither can we claim that Dvorak is proven to be inferior to Qwerty. Our
claim is that there is no scientifically acceptable evidence that Dvorak
offers any read advantage over Qwerty. Because of this claim, our
assessment of a market failure in this case is rather simple. It might
have been more complicated. For example, if Dvorak were found to be
superior. it might still be the case that the total social benefits are
less than the cost of switching. In that case, we could look for market
failure only in the process that started us On the Qwerty keyboard (if
the alternative were available at the beginning). Or we might have
concluded that Dvorak is better and that all parties could be made
better off if we could costlessly command both a switch and any
necessary redistribution. Such a finding would constitute a market
failure in the sense of mainstream welfare economics. Of course, this
circumstance still might not constitute a market in the sense of
Demsetz. which requires consideration of the costs of feasible
institutions that could efiect the change. 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


BIBLIOGRAPHY
Beeching, Wilfred. A Century of the Typewriter. New York: St. Martin's
Press, 1974. 

Cheung, Steven N. S. ''The Fable of the Bees: An Economic
Investigation.'' Journal of Law and Economics 16 (April 1973): 11-33. 

Coase, Ronald H . "The Problem of Social Cost." Journal of Law and
Economics 3 (October 1960): 1-44. 

Coase, Ronald H. ''The Lighthouse in Economics." Journal of Law and
Economics 17 October 1974): 357-76. 

David, Paul A. ''Clio and the Economics of QWERTY.'' American Economic
Review 75 (May 1985): 332-37. 

David, Paul A. ''Understanding the Economics of QWERTY: The Necessity of
History.'' In Economic History and the Modern Economist edited by W. N
Parker. New York: Basil Blackwell, 1986. 

Demsetz Harold. ''Information and Efficiency: Another Viewpoint.''
Journal of Law and Economics 12 April 1969): 1-22. 

Dvorak. August: Merrick Nellie L.: Dealey. William Leyland Ford.
Gertrude C. Typewriting Behavior . New York: American Book Co.. 1936. 

Farrell Joseph. and Saloner. Garth. ''Standardization. Compatibility.
and Innovation.'' Rand Journal 16 Spring 1985): 70-83. 

Foulke. Arthur. Mr. Typewriter: A Biography of Christopher Latham
Sholes.. Boston: Christopher Publishing 1961. 

Herkimer County Historical Society. The Story of the typewriter: New
York: Andrew H. Kellogg. 1923. 

Katz Michael L. and Shapiro. Carl. ''Network Externalities. Competition.
and Compatibility.'' American Economic Review 75 June 1985): 425-40. 

Kinkhead R. ''Typing Speed. Keying Rates and Optimal Keyboard Layouts.''
Proceedings of the Human Factors Society 19 1975. pp. 159-61. 

Landes. William M.. and Posner Richard A. "Trademark Law: An Economic
Perspective.'' Journal of Law and Economics 30 October 19871: 265-309. 

Liebowitz S. J. ''Tie-in Sales and Price Discrimination '' Economic
Inquiry 21 July 1983): 387-99. 

Liebowitz S. J. ''Copying and indirect Appropriability: Photocopying of
Journals. Journal of Political Economy 93 October l985: 945-57. 

Mandeville. Bernard M. The Fable of The Bees. New York: Capricorn Books.
1962. 

Mares George C. The History of The Typewriter. London: Guilbert Pitman.
1909. 

Margolis. Stephen E. ''Two Definitions of Efficiency in Law and
Economics." Journal of Legal Studies 16 July 1987: 471-82. 

Miller L. A. and Thomas. J. C. ''Behavioral Issues in the Use of
Interactive Systems.'' International Journal of Man-Machine Studies 9
1977 : 509-36. 

Navy Department A Practical Experiment in Simplified Keyboard Retraining
-- a Report on the retraining of fourteen standard Keyboard Typists on
the Simplified Keyboard and a Comparison of Typist Improvement from
Training on the Standard Keyboard and retraining on the Simplified
Keyboard. Department of Services. Training Section. Washington DC .:
Navy Department. Division of Shore Establishments and Civilian
Personnel. July 1944 and October 1944. 

New York Times. ''Typewriters Contest for a Prize.'' August 2. 1888. 

New York Times. ''Remington Still Leads the List.'' January 9 1889. 

New York Times. ''Wondedul Typing.'' February 28. i889. 

New York Times. ''Revolution in the Office.'' November 11. 1955. 

New York Times. ''US. Plans to Test New Typewriter.'' November 11. 1955. 

New York Times. ''Pyfgcrl vs. Qwertyuiop.'' January 22. 1956. 

New York Times. ' Key Changes Debated '' June 18. 1956. 

New York Times. U S Balks at Teaching Old Typists New Keys.'' July 2
1956. 

Norman. Donald A.. and Rumelhart. David E. ''Studies of Typing from the
LNR Research Group." In Cognitive Aspects of Skilled Typewriting, edited
by William E. Cooper. New York: Springer-Verlag 1983. 

Strong Earle P. A Comparative Experiment in Simplified Keyboard
Retraining and Standard Keyboard supplementary Training. Washington DC.:
US. General Services Administration 1956. 

Tirole Jean., The Theory of Industrial Organization, Cambridge: MIT
Press 1988. 

Yamada Hisao. "A Historical Study of Typewriters and Typing Methods.
Journal of Information Processing, 2 1980: 175-202 

Yamada Hisao. Certain Problems Associated with the Design of Input
Keyboards for Japanese Writing. In Cognitive Aspects of Skilled
Typewriting, edited by William E. Cooper. New York: Springer-Verlag.
1983. 

 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Some interesting keyboard sites:

Click here for graphic view of old typewriters : Contains lots of
history, pictures of old machines, and entertaining discussion.

 A compendium of typewriter sites : Contains many links to web sites
 that discuss typewriter collecting, and more importantly, typewriter
 history including warnings when a site contains misleading information.

 



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 

@ 1990 by The University of Chicago. All rights reserved.
0022-2186/90/3301-0005$01.50 

 

