

HOME ת CONTENTS ת JOBS 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Quantum confidential 

 

Photography: John Millar 


רררררררררררררררררררררררררררררררר
Want to beat the hackers once and for all? As Simon Singh finds out, the
enigmatic quantum world is about to make your secrets safe as houses
 

IT COULD HAPPEN in a few months or a few years. But sooner or later, a
mathematician could make a discovery that jeopardises international
security, threatens the future of Internet commerce, and imperils the
privacy of e-mails. Today's codes and ciphers are good, to be sure. But
it is probably only a matter of time before they become useless. 

With the coming of the information age, we rely ever more heavily on
cryptography to protect us from snoopers, cyber-crooks and Big Brother.
Some of today's most secure codes exploit the fact that while it is easy
to multiply two prime numbers together, it is almost impossible to start
with the answer and work out which two primes were used to create it.
But the day a mathematical genius discovers a short cut for finding the
hidden prime numbers, these codes will crumble. 

What everyone is looking for is a new form of code, one that is truly
unbreakable. That's where the quantum world comes in. Exploiting the
strange uncertainties of quantum physics can give you a code that
nobody--no matter how clever--will ever be able to crack. 

That's the theory. The trouble comes when you try putting it into
practice. When quantum particles interact with the large-scale world
they tend to lose the delicate information they contain. This makes it
fiendishly difficult to use them to send information over any sensible
distance. Difficult, but not impossible. In the past few years,
researchers have succeeded in sending quantum-encrypted messages tens of
kilometres down optical fibres. Now the challenge is to find a way to
send quantum-encrypted information through the air. This will open the
way to fully secure global communications, beamed up to an orbiting
satellite and forwarded to any place on Earth. It's a phenomenal
technical problem, but this year researchers at the Los Alamos National
Laboratory in New Mexico achieved a breakthrough that looks set to
transform the way we keep our secrets. 

Cryptographers often describe code scenarios in terms of a trio of
characters called Alice, Bob and Eve. While Alice is trying to send a
sensitive message to Bob, Eve is trying to eavesdrop. To keep her
message secret, Alice has to encrypt it, and for this she can use a
cipher known as a "one-time pad". Cryptographers have known about the
one-time pad technique for decades and it is logically uncrackable. The
encryption requires three separate stages. First, Alice transforms her
message into a series of 1s and 0s. Second, Alice creates a key--a
random series of 1s and 0s that is as long as the message. Third, Alice
adds each element of the key to the corresponding element of the
message, to create an encrypted text also made up of 1s and 0s; the only
unusual adding rule is that 1 + 1 = 0. Finally, Alice sends the
encrypted text to Bob. 

This type of code is impossible to crack because each element of Alice's
key is random. Even if Eve were to use computational brute force to try
every possible key, she'd find that many of them made some sort of
sense, and wouldn't know how to choose between the alternatives. Bob, on
the other hand, has a copy of the key, and can decipher the message by
simply subtracting the key from the encrypted text. 

The one-time pad cipher is so called because each key used to be written
on a separate sheet of a pad of paper. After being used once, the sheet
was torn off and destroyed, leaving the new key on the next sheet ready
to encrypt the next message. Despite being theoretically perfect, the
one-time pad cipher suffers from several practical flaws, which have
prevented its widespread use. Making random keys is a difficult task,
and making a new one for each message is time-consuming. The real
killer, though, is distributing the keys. After Alice has manufactured a
random key, encrypted her message, and sent the encrypted text, she
somehow has to get the key to Bob so that he can decrypt the message.
She cannot send the key unencrypted because Eve will steal it, and she
cannot encrypt it because she then has to tell Bob the key she used to
encrypt the key that she used to encrypt the message. 

The key-distribution problem was traditionally solved by employing
trusted couriers to deliver the keys by hand, but this solution doesn't
have much appeal in the age of satellite communications and e-mail. It
is here that quantum physics comes to the rescue. In the early 1980s,
Charles Bennett, an IBM researcher, and Gilles Brassard, a computer
scientist at the University of Montreal, proposed that Alice and Bob
should use individual photons to exchange their key. By operating at the
quantum level, they argued, Alice and Bob could exploit the laws of
quantum physics to protect the key. 

Bennett and Brassard proposed using photons polarised in different
directions to represent 1 or 0. If Eve tried to intercept the key, she
would have to measure the photons, which would effectively mean
absorbing them. To avoid being spotted, Eve would have to retransmit the
photon to Bob. However, because of the strange way that quantum
particles work, Eve does not always measure the same polarisation that
Alice sent. That in turn means that she cannot be sure that she is
retransmitting the correct orientation. Thus Eve's interception will
inevitably affect the transmission of the key, and Alice and Bob should
be able to spot this, discard the key, and try again with a new one. 

The system is perfect, apart from one problem. If Eve cannot accurately
read the key, then how can Bob? In 1984, Bennett and Brassard were
chatting on the platform at Croton-Harmon station in New York state,
near IBM's Watson Laboratories in Yorktown Heights, when they hit on the
answer. Waiting for the train that would take Brassard back to Montreal,
they invented the first workable form of quantum cryptography. The
Bennett- Brassard communications protocol requires the use of four
polarising filters for Alice and four for Bob, but it was superseded in
1992 by a simpler system that requires only two filters each. 

It works like this. Alice needs to send a key to Bob, which he can then
use to decipher a future coded message. To do this, Alice starts with
two polarising filters oriented at 0 degrees and +45 degrees,
representing 0 and 1 respectively. Bob has two similar polarising
filters oriented at 90 degrees and -45 degrees. For the key, Alice sends
Bob a string of randomly polarised photons representing 1s and 0s. Bob
then tries to measure the polarisation of each photon by randomly
switching between his two filters. 

A photon striking a filter oriented in the same direction will always
pass through. Conversely, a photon striking a filter oriented
perpendicularly will never pass through. But a photon hitting a filter
that is diagonal to its own orientation is in a quantum quandary, with a
50:50 chance of passing through or being blocked. 

Suppose Bob chooses his -45ר filter to measure a photon from Alice, and
no photon passes through. He cannot know whether Alice sent a +45ר
photon (meaning 1), which is always blocked, or if she sent a 0ר photon
(meaning 0), which is only sometimes blocked. If a photon does pass
through his filter, then he is in luck: he can be sure that Alice sent a
0ר photon. 

This means that Bob knows that if a photon passes through his
-45רfilter, Alice must be sending him a 0. Similarly, if he uses his 90ר
filter and the photon passes through, then Alice must have sent a +45ר
photon (see Diagram, p 32). 

So when Alice sends polarised photons to Bob, he will be able to
establish with certainty the bit value of a fraction of them. Alice
could send a series of a hundred photons, each one polarised at random,
while Bob randomly switched between his filters. Typically,
three-quarters of them would be blocked, but Bob would know the bit
value for the lucky minority that got through. Bob could then call Alice
on the telephone and tell her exactly which 25 photons he received.
These would form the key for encrypting a subsequent message (see
Diagram, p 33). 

Filtered out 

Although Bob tells Alice which photons he correctly measured, he does
not say which filter he used to measure them. So even if Eve overhears
the telephone conversation, she gains no information about the
composition of the key. 

And, crucially, if Eve tries to intervene at an earlier stage by
intercepting the photons on their way to Bob, then her presence becomes
apparent. Suppose that Alice sends a 0ר photon, representing a 0 bit,
and Eve measures it using a -45ר filter. If the photon is blocked, Eve
does not know if this is because the photon was +45ר, and so stood no
chance of passing through, or because it was at 0ר and she was unlucky.
Eve might take a guess that it was a +45ר photon, and create and
transmit such a photon onto Bob. If Bob measured it using his 90ר
filter, the photon might pass through--and if it did he would
incorrectly interpret Alice's photon as representing a 1 bit. 

Bob's misinterpretation can be used to expose Eve's nefarious
interception. To see if Eve has been listening, Alice and Bob check for
errors. After establishing a tentative key, they pick some of the bits
at random and declare their values over the telephone to see whether
they agree. If there is any discrepancy, they assume that Eve has been
eavesdropping and they abandon the key and start again. If there is no
discrepancy, they assume that it is safe to use the key as the basis for
encrypting a message--having first discarded those bits that they
disclosed during the error-checking procedure. 

There is always the possibility that Eve intercepts a photon and guesses
correctly when she retransmits it. If such a photon is used as part of
the error- checking procedure, then no error appears, and Eve's presence
is not betrayed. But as Bob and Alice check more and more bits, Eve's
chances of avoiding detection become vanishingly small. 

Once the key has been sent successfully, Alice uses it to encrypt her
message. She can then send the message by phone, pigeon post or
whatever. Safely encoded, it can't be deciphered by anybody but Bob,
even if it's there for all to see. 

It was not until 1989, five years after Bennett and Brassard invented
quantum cryptography, that they tested it experimentally. One computer,
Alice, sent a stream of photons through 32 centimetres of air to a
second computer, Bob. Bennett and Brassard had successfully transmitted
the world's most secure key. 

Other experimenters soon began to design systems that operated over more
useful distances. The crucial technical problem is maintaining the
polarisation of the photons. If this changes during transit, Alice and
Bob's error-checking procedure will find discrepancies even if Eve is
not eavesdropping, so no valid key will emerge. 

One way round this is to send photons down optical fibres, which
conserve the polarisation. Already, this approach has allowed
quantum-encrypted messages to be sent over significant distances. In
1995, researchers at the University of Geneva successfully sent a
message down an optical fibre to the town of Nyon, more than 20
kilometres to the north. This year, researchers at Los Alamos
established a new record when they sent a quantum key through a
48-kilometre optical fibre--long enough to set up a network between
neighbouring branches of a bank say, or government offices. But
extending the technology any further is more problematic, because
individual photons struggle to survive the journey through the fibres
without being absorbed. Over distances of hundreds or thousands of
kilometres, the signal would dwindle to nothing. 

The ideal solution would be to find a way to send quantum keys up
through the air to waiting satellites. The Quantum Information Team at
Los Alamos, led by Richard Hughes, is the world leader in such
"free-space quantum cryptography". For the past two years, the group has
been steadily overcoming the technical difficulties and extending the
transmission distances step by step. 

Ultimately, they want to be able to fire individual photons to hit a
satellite's receiver, which is only a few centimetres across and orbits
at an altitude of 300 kilometres. The photons must pass through the
atmosphere without being absorbed--so that the signal is not simply
lost--and they must not change their polarisation. 

It's easy enough to make sure that the photons are not absorbed. You
just have to choose a wavelength that the molecules in the atmosphere
ignore. Hughes's team has opted for 770 nanometres. Longer wavelengths
also pass through the air unscathed, but are more susceptible to
turbulence, which changes the local refractive index of the air and thus
twists the orientation of the photon's polarisation. Turbulence
typically occurs on a scale of tens of centimetres, so 770 nanometres is
short enough to avoid this. 

That still leaves plenty of other problems. For instance, as the
satellite tries to detect Alice's photons, there is the risk of being
swamped by background photons, either coming directly from the Sun or
reflected from the Earth or Moon. To prevent this, the Los Alamos group
has designed a highly directional receiver that only picks up photons
arriving from Alice's direction. It also includes a filter to ensure
that only photons of the correct frequency are accepted. 

To exclude any remaining extraneous photons that happen to come from the
right direction with the right frequency, the detector only accepts
photons that arrive during a time window of 5 nanoseconds each
microsecond. The window has to be open when Alice's photon arrives. 

But this causes another problem--and again it's turbulence that is at
the root of it. Even if it doesn't change the polarisation of the
photons, turbulence does affect how fast they travel. This leads to
"jitter"--a continual variation in the journey time. To compensate for
jitter, a pulse of light is sent 100 nanoseconds ahead of each photon.
This timing pulse is affected by the atmosphere in exactly the same way
as the photon that follows. So whenever a pulse arrives, the satellite
knows that the photon will be coming 100 nanoseconds later and times the
opening of the window accordingly. 

Turbulence causes another headache too. Changes in refractive index
cause the beam to wander so that it misses the satellite's antenna. To
keep the photon beam on course, Alice monitors the feeble reflections
from the timing pulses, and uses the information to steer the photon
beam. 

Earlier this year, Hughes set a new record for quantum cryptography
through air when he exchanged a key across 500 metres. Bob, the
receiver, was equipped with a 3.5-inch-diameter telescope. Each incoming
photon encountered a beam splitter, which randomly reflected or
transmitted the photon, steering it towards one type of filter or the
other. 

Afterwards, Alice and Bob used an insecure Ethernet link to check for
errors in their key. Because there was no Eve attempting to intercept
the key, there should have been no errors. In fact, background photons,
detector noise and misalignment introduced an error rate of 1.6 per
cent, but this isn't too serious. If Eve had been listening in, she
would have caused an error rate more like 25 per cent, so Alice and Bob
can still be confident that their key is secure. 

So how close is practical free-space quantum cryptography? At first
sight there's a big difference between the 500 metres Hughes sent his
quantum cryptographic key and the 300 kilometres needed to reach a
communications satellite. But Hughes is closer to his goal than these
figures suggest. His photons travelled horizontally, at ground level,
where the air is dense and fluctuations are greatest. Hughes estimates
that transmitting a quantum key 2 kilometres horizontally would be
equivalent to reaching a satellite in low-Earth orbit. He plans to try a
2-kilometre demonstration later this year. Then, within two years, he
hopes to conduct a quantum cryptographic exchange with an actual
satellite. 

If Hughes's experiments go to plan, global satellite communications
could be protected by secure quantum cryptography within a decade. In
the meantime, optical fibres will allow communications on a much smaller
scale. Even now, it would be possible to build a quantum cryptographic
optical fibre link between the White House and the Pentagon. Perhaps
there already is one. 

Simon Singh is a freelance writer based in London, whose The Code
Book--the science of secrecy from Ancient Egypt to quantum cryptography
was published this month by Fourth Estate. He is also the author of
Fermat's Last Theorem




 

Graphics: 


Quantum cryptography: Photon transmission (A) 


Quantum cryptography: Photon transmission (B) 




--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
From New Scientist, 2 October 1999 



Subscribe to New Scientist  




 
New Scientist Home
_________________________

NEW SCIENTIST Contents page
New Scientist Jobs
Editorial
News
Features
Opinion
Letters
Feedback
The Last Word
Back Issues
_________________________
WEB ONLY:
Insight Special Reports
Bizarre Science
Science in the Bay Area
Last Word Q & A Archive
Keysites
Science Books
Artspace
_________________________

Search the site
_________________________

Subscribe
   

c Copyright New Scientist, RBI Limited 1999

