33G098Z - Operatio.txt created by Pip to detail initial GameOver
  operating procedures, figures, etc.

GAME OVER
Section: 2.2.2  Daily Operating Requirements and Responsibilities 
(rough draft but bear in mind that much of this is not daily)

The following estimations (personnel and other) were made under the
assumption that Game Over will require between 3,000 and 4,000 square
feet of operating space.


Staff Overview (in descending order of authority, responsibility, and salary)
--------------

Location Manager - Person responsible and accountable for all finances,
procedures, staffing, and shift scheduling of their GO location.

Associate (Location Assistant) Manager - Person primarily responsible for
inventory (including orders for equipment or software) and the direct
manager of all normal (ie. non-technician) associates.  Secondary
responsibility is helping and learning from other managers.

Technical Manager - Person responsible for all equipment repairs,
PC network administration and security, and software maintenance.
Also the direct manager of all other technicians.

Other Positions:
Sanitary Technician (Cleanup Associate), Assistant Technician, Associate
Gamers, Game Geeks

Each Cleanup Associate is responsible for thoroughly cleaning every
reasonable part of our facilities 3 or 4 days per week on a schedule
opposite our business hours.  We should employ two Cleanup Associates.
These associates may also be scheduled to work during business hours
to complete a full-time schedule if cleanup duties do not occupy enough
time (or shifts will be scheduled to partially overlap business hours).

The Assistant Technician, Associate Gamers, and Game Geeks make up our
Customer Service Representatives.

Our Assistant Technicians are responsible for supporting customers with
technical issues (troubleshooting), helping with repairs, and learning
about our entire infrastructure.  We should employ two Assistant
Technicians.

(*Note: Every position above should normally be full-time.)

Associate Gamers can be part-time or full-time employees who have been
promoted from Geek positions.  Associate Gamers are primarily responsible
for accurate money/credit card handling, excellent customer service,
and maintaining/enforcing our business policies and procedures under
normal circumstances.  We should employ three Associate Gamers.

Game Geek (maybe "geek" is way too cute so just "Gamer" or something 
else that's more mundane and professional would be a better name) is 
our part-time entry-level position.  We should employ four or five Game 
Geeks.


Management Team
---------------

  The three managers have scheduled meetings twice each week (every 
Monday and Thursday morning) as well as impromptu meetings whenever 
the Location Manager feels it is necessary.  These meetings are held 
in order to discuss and evaluate the success of the business in 
general, the performance of particular associates, and the budget for 
needed equipment and staff.  A relatively rigid schedule of meeting 
topics will be established to address the core decisions that need to 
be agreed upon regularly but each meeting will afterward shift into a 
free forum where any other items or ideas can be brought up for 
discussion.  
  These meetings should serve the following primary purposes:
  * synchronize all managers' understanding of location's latest 
      operating efficiency and profitability in order to agree on
      team goals for improvement (collective goal establishment and 
      evaluation [ie. strategic planning])
  * address specific details of issues with associates or equipment
  * mutual encouragement, respect, appreciation, and support among 
      managers to constantly be a unified, coherent, and effective 
      team


Technical Team
--------------

  Led by the Technical Manager, the Technical Team is primarily 
concerned with equipment repairs, network configuration, software 
installation and development, and facility cleanliness.


Customer Service Team
---------------------

  Led by the Associate Manager, the Customer Service Team runs the 
location floor.  They handle transactions, account setup, simple 
technical support (login assistance), checkin/checkout, and floor/zone
patrols.


Entire GameOver Team
--------------------

  Paid monthly meetings where every manager and associate attends to 
address all Location issues including:
  * new associate introduction/welcome
  * status updates regarding progress towards goals
  * provide training/exposition on procedures and policy changes
  * public commendations/reward of exceptional performance
  * feedback/suggestion opportunity
  * motivation/encouragement for the entire Game Over staff


Financial Procedures
--------------------


Inventory Procedures
-------------------


Cleanup Procedures
------------------


Projected Pay Scale
-------------------


Associate Evaluation/Promotion Procedures
-----------------------------------------


Associate Hiring/Interview Procedures
-------------------------------------


Altercation/Conflict Procedures
-------------------------------
  Handling complaints
  Handling theft
  Handling vandalism (destruction or defacement)
  Handling violence




--- old notes section ---
  Assuming: 
    $2.50 / sq.ft. / mo. rent
    100 sq.ft. needed / console station
    50 sq.ft needed / arcade cabinet
    50 sq.ft needed / PC station
    GO opens at Noon everyday && closes sometime after 2am 
      (exact closing time will depend on how many people are still paying to 
       play but shouldn't exceed 4am under normal circumstances) eg. GO stays
       open after 2am as long as there are at least 8 gamers clocked in)
    We do serve simple foods && Boba tea
    We start with one waitress for lunch, 2 for dinner time && ramp up 
      according to food popularity

add footnote for 8k space
email Sirlin draft

mk separate section for chicks, tea, food, bouncers, added attraction
