I still also have a goal of implementing or improving enough of Octology that I feel it's ready to send to you for your consideration and hopefully executable evaluation (tentatively before the end of this year). Maybe I'll ideally be able to include the git revision history of each of my sub-projects so that you can review my development trajectory and liberally modify your own fork in any ways that might occur to you such that we'll be able to employ git to merge our respective changes and collaborate thereafter. I'm anticipating that you might feel compelled to code some things cooperatively with me, after I have sufficient opportunity to introduce you to the most salient concepts in proper executable form. Collaboration (with you first, and then maybe others) is just a potential outcome I'd like to prepare for. You shouldn't feel at all like I'm requiring or expecting this of you though. I will be totally contented if you're merely able to run some or most of my code and you're able to appreciate any aspects of it whatsoever. I do also hope though that I'll be able to implement enough functionality to allow us to begin using my software to play Chess regularly together online (or via e-mail), if you'd show any interest in doing that either. I've still got a great deal to do (probably a few months minimum) before I'm likely to feel ready to release it all to you, and even then I'll totally understand if you're too busy otherwise to delve into my system for as much time as you need. I plan to include some interactive introduction demonstrations to provide you explorable insights into the main designs and reasoning behind. I'm just hopeful that I can bring some of my best and most elegant ideas to fruition with functional and representational synergy that impresses you in even the slightest fashion.

Hi Danny,

You totally have my support and encouragement. I believe in your ideas and abilities. If you find it helpful, I suggest you try to acknowledge what scares you, in order to be genuine and compassionate with yourself at the outset, but thereafter attempt to focus almost exclusively on your relevant and copious strengths in experience, interest, curiosity, determination, technical and mathematical and musical capacities, etc. so that you feel empowered to overcome challenges and can consistently and concertedly achieve satisfying levels of progress towards even your most ambitious and experimental goals. I hope you can feel inspired to realize your desired conception and then bask in the enjoyment that advancement and successful accomplishment brings. I'm eager to hear how it goes. =)

I have been pretty busy with my Peer Specialist class and reading and re-learning how to use git effectively and coding more elegant utilities in hopes of building up my skills and confidence back to where I can create, contribute to, and collaborate on useful public code projects again ahead. Regarding my class, I'm happy that I aced my first quiz and am pretty sure I aced the second one last week too. This week, I need to start picking articles to base my first paper on. It's hard to guess when I wrote my last paper, but it's probably close to 15 years ago. This class is certainly more weekly commitment and challenge than I've subjected myself to since my last Bipolar episode over four years ago, but I'm adamant that passing this class (with an 85% or higher) must remain my top priority and an important life goal as part of my ongoing recovery from disability.

Another goal I'm making progress on is not smoking cigarettes or pipe tobacco anymore. I've gone over two months without and am proud of gaining such discipline. This effort to leave smoking behind coincides with my happily growing hope that I will get to live at least a few more years, if not decades (in stark contrast to my long-standing expectation that my demise must loom imminently) and that I may be able to accomplish some remarkably positive things before I'm gone (rather than concluding that all my competent and creative days must be already behind me).

I still also have a goal of implementing or improving enough of Octology that I feel it's ready to send to you for your evaluation and I'm hoping whatever you're able to execute locally impresses you. I'm tentatively shooting for releasing my code to you before the end of this year and am planning to migrate all my version histories over to git before then, just in case you find you'd like to collaborate on it with me at all. Please don't worry that I'm going to require or expect you to code with me on any of it. I just want to prepare for the welcome possibility that you decide at that time that you'd like to. I should be completely contented if you run whatever code you can and look it over and then simply let me know what you think. Maybe my best-case scenario is that you start comprehending my broader vision for Octology and that what I've implemented for you by then causes you to have beneficial brainstorms for what my further development priorities should be and best avenues for improvement or exploration.
