Daniel Wyckoff  1:54 AM (7 hours ago)
to me

As stoney in the times . . .
Wait, did I hear you right, did you say, Ansonia in the Times,
Whaddaya think they're writing about Ansonia Station for?
Are they saying that they got a mail room, where everyone
throws sacks of letters inside the carts that then cart
away the stacks of letters?  Is that what you're saying?
Yeah, that's what I'm sezing. 
I'm sezing I ain't seizing to know that the sativa is the way to
go.
I have a new copy of goodaut.pdf that's getting under way,
things are starting to get more real, and
I'm about to work out this one thing involving
binary Boolean operators' corresponding
tensor product.  It's fun stuff! 
I'm super-happy, and like hearing your
schizophrenic voice in my head.
You always say nice things to me.
It's Tim Byron that's the asshole.
I have a theory that he's a reincarnation of an evil knight from the 19th century named Sir John Stoddard,
and he's replicating the same patterns again and will continue to do so,
but that's just a fancy. 
Schizohprenics have fanciful thoughts that they believe might be true,
or if not, something like that, and they more or less keep that in mind,
when processing repeated sociopathic behavior, since schizophrenics
are targets for Satanists, and I feel bad for Tim Byron, since
his house burned down, but he's certainly not hurting for money. 

Anyway, I feel embarrassed that there was a time for like 2-3 years when
I felt closer to him, than to you.  That was circa suicide attempts and whatnot,
which I always say, to put things in perspective.  I was in a lot of pain.

Anyway, now it's happy time.
Because happy time is now, not in the future, or in the past,
but now is the time when things can happen, right when
you say now, because then it's not now, and now is the time
for happiness!!

Pip is the man with the hacking plan, just like Dan in the morning. 
Pip is the man with Octology,
For ever single tree!
Pip is the man with the ckm8 plan,
Who codes things that will ckm8 you.
Pip is the man who never wears long stockings,
Because that would not ckm8 you. 
It would ckm8 a date,
For a late magistrate,
Who revives his days
in the old days.
It would ckm8 a date,
who would wear long stockings,
Because it is always the old days!!

And the good ole days are now, because I still act like I'm 17!!!!!
I still do math homework stoned, only now I've crossed some line
I couldn't imagine at age 17. 
And that's when our Rubik's Cube program came together,
and we won 2nd place, and Micah didn't win, and now Micah
thinks he's better than us because he works at Google.
I hung out with him about 4 or 5 years ago, and
he made it clear to me that he thought I was some
type of casualty, and I would appreciate the concern,
if he didn't react retardly when I said, I wanted to
program software that helped cure pain.
Remember that phase?
Now, just get an adept, and a sensitive computer,
and a spark of white mogic, and compile bool2, then
send the spark back to where you got it!
And vwahala!  Cure pain!!

And this would fall under the category of things
I believe like 30% and know that something like that is true,
but we are outcasts, me and you, Pip.
The disabled crew is part genetic condition,
and part outcast, because they criticize our behavior.

They criticize the fact that I just finished
a new version of goodaut.pdf.
They criticize the fact that Octology is now public!!

Good day,
My Hacker Friend,
My Only One (Hacker Friend that is), I have other friends,
but none of them are hackers. 
But, in some true sense you are some maximal type of
friend and I haven't figured out with which relation --
loyalty?  smart anti-authoritian?  something lke that.
And so it goes.
Back to goodaut.pdf!
