Hey Pip,

So, the good news is that it looks like I got David out of my life.  He sent me a quizzical happy birthday e-mail, and I explained to him in greater detail
why I was cutting him off, and that I would always respond to e-mails, etc.

Call me paranoid but I think he was giving me sociopathic strains of weed or something, because now that I smoked me some killer medium-strength sativa called
Dream Queen from the local dispensary with my new medical rec, I'm feeling more human!!  It's as if, a part of my soul that the Prozac and the sociopathic
weed attenuated has regrown.

I bought half an ounce for only $120, and plan on being slightly stoned constantly for the next few months.  I love this weed!

Anyway, now that I'm human I thought I would e-mail you, the only person in the world who responds to my sensitive intellectual e-mails in kind.

Bool2 is going well, and it's kind of funny because I'm writing all these list utilities -- proving things like the last one I finished --

Lemma firstn_all_min_cons_in_hd :
  forall {T:Type} (pfdt:type_eq_dec T)
         (l:list T) (x:T) (pf':In x (x::l))
         (pf:In x l),
  firstn_all_min pfdt (x::l) x pf' = x::firstn_all_min pfdt l x pf.

Which in pseudocode means that the minimal initial segment of a list that begins with a given element x, which segment still contains all occurrences of x --
that minimal list begins with x and ends with the minimal initial segment of the final segment of the first list mentioned that still contains all occurrences
of the x's.

Phew, and it's kind of obvious, and kind of dry and kind of wanky, but it's what I do, and it's better than any work which any job in Los Angeles would give
me!!

So, there you go!

I'm about to return to coding and trying to get one more commit tonight.

We're getting a new roof, and I remember the last time we got a new roof, when we were hanging out in my room, and there were all these Mexicans tearing off
our old roof VERY LOUDLY, and we were laughing at it!

That was 25 years ago and we're still super-close friends!

Now for my human side, to extol how grateful I am that you take me seriously, and respect me, and are loyal.

I feel bad that your borderline ADHD caused you to tweak out too crazy in Los Angeles.  I went crazy in Los Angeles without tweak, because Los Angeles is one
of the most casually sociopathic cities in the world.  You can't get any job without coming face to face with a sociopath, and there is all this crazy Matrix
mirror shit going on in traffic, and there's all these nuts, and then throw in your medicine at too high a dose, with a girlfriend who thought she could treat
you the way she did, when you're out of her league physically and intellectually, etc.

So, I don't recommend coming back to LA to live because there might be more crazy shit if you need the tweak, but

I want you to know that I never hold anything against you regarding how you behaved, because one thing is true -- you never truly wronged me during any of
that shit!!  And that's saying a lot, because every person I've tried to establish a close friendship has crossed the line at some point . . . I think . . .
maybe not -- there are people who are really nice to me but whom I don't relate to, and don't feel close to.

Anyway, let me know how you are, and I'll return to bool2 soon, and hopefully one day soon I'll exhaust all these dinky list functions that I have to write in
order to get to the good stuff, the deep math, rather than deep putzing!!

❤ Danny
