What you can count on as true (according to both my most manic, as well as my more typical stable less bipolar, minds) is that I consider you among the purest greatest actually eternally best friends any spiritual being could ever wish for. I have wanted to bear the brunt of any anguish you could suffer, whenever I possibly could in your stead. I hate that I have unintentionally ever hurt you. I want HaShem to grant that you (and absolutely all of your ancestors and offspring) should be filled with brilliant life, in ways that suit individually. The reason I cough, Why I ckoff, is to attempt to pronounce Hebrew as my brother's tongue and pray thanks for kosher vegan food and yet still remain distinctly me, Pip HaGoy. I want for you to keep living in Heaven on Earth now. I don't yet comprehend the finer distinctions between open or not topologies, but I'll try again when I'm not a few beers under. When I can respond to you, I will. I want to, even when I can't. You have the potential to blow my feeble mind with some collision of stuff about sets of infinite real sub-bases of open interval whatevers though! ;)

What do you think of almost all mathematicians and conformists, and respective geniality? Is there an apt answer to the million dollar charity question (that might even respect some level of conformity)?

Can you deserve and attain spiritual heaven *and* have your way, taking your spirit immediately to a new human body's next life with desirably compatible parents and sister? Enjoy and appreciate both synergistically somehow? I don't know your ultimate destiny, but I hope it be more majestic and actually experientially beneficially grandiose than you've envisaged.
You misrepresent and disservice yourself to pose as anything less than monumental to me generally. Even when I'm vacant and absent and aloof and forlorn, or even amidst my old (thankfully now rare) worst suicidal and most destructive ideations, I still think of you fondly and wish I could impress you with my Octology code someday (even posthumously through some old 8.txt), or just play ckm8 together (after I eventually figure out how to muster some more respectable networking capability beyond minimal shared ssh account and GNU screen -x Curses interface). I similarly hope you are always able to steer clear of all of my bad advice too. You can be flattered and blush if you want to, man! I think you deserve kudos. Don't mistake me for having many friends like you. I'm thankful we have survived many travails. Let us live to endure many more! Let our ideas become fruitful, multiplying, and feeding us back in ways we don't yet get to know. I will continue to prefer blessing us again and again. However I can. Even subtly. HaOlam? Forever.
There are many topics, the science of white magic, exploration of higher-dimensional good, I don't know where to begin. I want to live and love. I tend to have a present favorite cat, but past-tense gets squishy fast. Those notions still often delineate me in ephemeral ways which I think evaporate when trying to grasp. Your insight is probably typically poignant and prescient. Where from there? I think it's probably good to generally try to never force music or math or code (etc.), since their associated thinking tends to flow naturally when they should, but darned exceptions can crop up too. Shit! What do you think? Please forgive me if I'm a little drunk on an unsoberly silly Tuesday night / Wednesday morn. My right ear has been plugged with wax for over a week, wreaking some strange havoc on my equilibrium. Lack of hearing might adversely affect my Chess play. Not necessarily expected!

I tend to agree with "program for fear of bad things happening" and "program to prove you're more important than an invalid" as both beyond dismissable as merely machine/obsessive advice. Both seem regularly serious to me too, but maybe just somewhat counter-balanced in opposing ways by "program for likelihood of good things happening" and "program even when you're invalid". I hope you don't take either of those as unwelcome by being provocatively contrarian, unless you're also happy to do so? I think I'm just thinking. ;)

Love,
-Pip
