Hi Sasha,

First: Yeah, I stopped using "PipTigger@Yahoo.Com" several years ago since this "PipStuart@GMail.Com" account was so thoroughly superior for web-mail services. Sorry if my switch hasn't been reflected in your address-book suggestion priority, leaving a hurdle in our communications. Hopefully that can be fixed simply by e-mailing each other enough to propagate the update (or by you manually removing any of my lingering Yahoo entries from your address-books if you're able to). I still use my "PipTigger" handle on a few old programmer sites that I've never bothered to change but almost every new account I've created online recently has been "PipStuart" now instead.

Second: I think you're almost certainly *not* crazy. I'd bet you've still got a wild, daring, against-the-grain side to you though. ;) Yeah. All in love, bro. Don't worry.

Thank you for providing me such insight into this dedication to professionalism that you maintain with your people and Meital in particular (by requesting this without Cc'ing her). I appreciate this opportunity you've given me to decide if it's right for me and your respect of whatever way my decision would go.

My decision is to become as professional as you need. The more you explain to me, the more I'll be able to incorporate into my work efforts, interactions, and relationships.

Regarding the double-ampersand: It has been a programmer expression I've utilized to highlight the semantic equivalence of this slightly more efficient alternative representation with the meaning of logical "and" throughout the prevalent contexts of U.S. English and most programming languages. I've developed this quirky expression into a deeply ingrained habit over so many years now that I often resort to it reflexively, without concern, contemplation, or even consciousness as to whether it remains appropriate. Said more simply: Since my double-ampersands have become so habitual, I may forget to favor "and" sometimes, but I am glad to focus on breaking this habit if it would be inappropriate or confusing in its new context.

Regarding not using my original name: I'm thinking you mentioned this because you thought I might still wish to identify myself as "PipTigger" even in a business setting. If so, I've already explained it as not the case.

I aim to exhibit whatever level of professionalism you'd need for me to interface with your people, so please let me know if I'm rough around other edges too so that I can become another fun-loving wonderful employee of IP without rubbing others the wrong way. I understand your concern since I share a form of it. Just as you want your business to run respectably so others don't you're just helping a friend, I similarly strive to become known as an experienced addition to the team who values the company's success rather than being seen as a parasitic nepotist. I wouldn't want to hide our friendship but I'd want everyone to be clear that my priority at work is to do my job expertly (not just be some friend).

Hope that all sounds good. I'll reply to the other e-mails shortly. Today is Vee's birthday so I drafted most of this earlier but then have been spending most of the day with her before I could finish it up. Hope you're doing well, dude. =)

Shalom,
-Pip

On Mon, Sep 14, 2009 at 01:31, Sasha Strauss <SStrauss@InnovationProtocol.Com> wrote:
> ...
> ----- Original Message -----
> From: Sasha Strauss
> To: 'piptigger@yahoo.com' <piptigger@yahoo.com>
> Sent: Mon Sep 14 04:28:15 2009
> Subject: Personal request
>
> So, I have a request if we progress in any business like relationship that I didn't want to CC Meital about. You have to decide if it's right for you though and I respect your decision either way.
>
> If you are going to interface with my people, I need professionalism. What I mean by this is stuff like double-ampersands and not using your original name. Do you think you might reconsider both? Although I know who you are and why you do the things you do, they don't and shouldn't have to. Don't get me wrong, they're fun loving, wonderful people. But my business is a business and I'd like it to operate as so in situations like this so they don't think I'm just helping a friend.
>
> What do you think? Am I crazy? : ). All in love my brother,
>
> Sasha
> Managing Director - Innovation Protocol - Strategic Brand Development
> 213.626.0660 x04direct
> 800.586.2215tollfree
> 213.403.5691fax
> 310.770.2216mobile
> SStrauss @ InnovationProtocol.Com
> 811 Traction Avenue, Suite 2C, Los Angeles, CA 90013
