Bavl is good for the Perl community, because it is good for all of humanity... but Bavl is especially good for our particular subset of humanity; as Perl hackers, we tend to say, interpret and do similar (yet subtly distinct) things. Perl hackers revere linguistic mastery, this is reflected through the characteristics of our common language, Perl. As individuals we value the ability to creatively express our diverse visions with our elegant and boundless language. We hope that Bavl will help encourage celebration of pioneers of all linguistic frontiers, enabling neophytes and visionaries alike.

v2:Bavl is good for the Perl community, because it is good for all of humanity... but Bavl is especially beneficial for our particular subset of humanity; as Perl hackers, we share reverence of linguistic mastery, and as individuals, we tend to say, interpret and act in a similar, yet subtly distinct, way. These common ideaologies amoung Perl hackers seperates us from other programming communities, no matter our citizenship or native language - our distinctive features are reflected through the characteristics of our common language of Perl. We Perl hackers value our ability to cultivate and creatively express diverse visions within Perl's elegant and boundless language. We hope Bavl will encourage the celebration of pioneers of all linguistic frontiers, enabling neophytes and visionaries alike.

Humanity has always struggled to communicate effectively; our oft celebrated and widely diverse cultures and languages lead to misunderstandings and inhibited progress because of the lack of a widely available, and contextually accurate translation system. We consider Bavl to be a compelling solution to this fundamental problem, because of its inherent simplicity and ubiquitous applicability. As a universally accessible system, Bavl represents the dominant mechanism for language learning of the future.

If Bavl achieves even a small level of global success, it stands to dramatically improve international, intercultural, and interpersonal relations through minimizing misunderstandings and cultural ignorance. The Perl community's affinity for linguistics could become a sort of contagious vaccination among all peoples. Someday, the masses might have fun adopting new languages, increasing vocabularies and teaching philosophies with cross-culturally eloquent accuracy. Plus, Perl hackers would enjoy learning desired languages through an underlying system built primarily from their favorite programming language.
