Islam has a familiar concept of Mashiach (Messiah) as Mahdi who will bring about peace and justice on the earth (although it seems the Mahdi is a distinct character from Mashiach, maybe the Prophet Mohammed (peace be upon him)).  There is also a False Messiah (Anti-Christ) as Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal who will bring great tribulation upon the earth first (before the peace).
Study these verses!
According to:
HTTP://GeoCities.Com/sunrisinginwest/dajjal.html
...
Now having understood that prophecies sometime do require interpretation, we may now look at these prophecies concerning the Dajjal. The Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) stated that in the midst of the trials of the Dajjal one should recite the first and last ten verses of Surah Al-Kahf (The Cave):

Whoever commits to memory the first ten verses of the chapter entitled the Cave will be immune from (the trials of) Dajjal (Al-Muslim 6:42; Abu Dawud; Tirmidhi; Musnad Ahmad.).

Whoever recites the last ten verses of the chapter entitled the Cave will be safe from the trials of Dajjal (Al-Muslim; Tirmidhi; Abu Dawud 36:12.).
...
The verses read:
HTTP://USC.Edu/dept/MSA/quran/018.qmt.html
Translations of the Qur'an, Chapter 18:
AL-KAHF (THE CAVE)

Total Verses: 110
Revealed At: MAKKA
Maududi's introduction

In the name of Allah, the Compassionate, the Merciful.

018.001
YUSUFALI: Praise be to Allah, Who hath sent to His Servant the Book, and hath allowed therein no Crookedness:
PICKTHAL: Praise be to Allah Who hath revealed the Scripture unto His slave, and hath not placed therein any crookedness,
SHAKIR: (All) praise is due to Allah, Who revealed the Book to His servant and did not make in it any crookedness.

018.002
YUSUFALI: (He hath made it) Straight (and Clear) in order that He may warn (the godless) of a terrible Punishment from Him, and that He may give Glad Tidings to the Believers who work righteous deeds, that they shall have a goodly Reward,
PICKTHAL: (But hath made it) straight, to give warning of stern punishment from Him, and to bring unto the believers who do good works the news that theirs will be a fair reward,
SHAKIR: Rightly directing, that he might give warning of severe punishment from Him and give good news to the believers who do good that they shall have a goodly reward,

018.003
YUSUFALI: Wherein they shall remain for ever:
PICKTHAL: Wherein they will abide for ever;
SHAKIR: Staying in it for ever;

018.004
YUSUFALI: Further, that He may warn those (also) who say, "Allah hath begotten a son":
PICKTHAL: And to warn those who say: Allah hath chosen a son,
SHAKIR: And warn those who say: Allah has taken a son.

018.005
YUSUFALI: No knowledge have they of such a thing, nor had their fathers. It is a grievous thing that issues from their mouths as a saying what they say is nothing but falsehood!
PICKTHAL: (A thing) whereof they have no knowledge, nor (had) their fathers, Dreadful is the word that cometh out of their mouths. They speak naught but a lie.
SHAKIR: They have no knowledge of it, nor had their fathers; a grievous word it is that comes out of their mouths; they speak nothing but a lie.

018.006
YUSUFALI: Thou wouldst only, perchance, fret thyself to death, following after them, in grief, if they believe not in this Message.
PICKTHAL: Yet it may be, if they believe not in this statement, that thou (Muhammad) wilt torment thy soul with grief over their footsteps.
SHAKIR: Then maybe you will kill yourself with grief, sorrowing after them, if they do not believe in this announcement.

018.007
YUSUFALI: That which is on earth we have made but as a glittering show for the earth, in order that We may test them - as to which of them are best in conduct.
PICKTHAL: Lo! We have placed all that is on the earth as an ornament thereof that We may try them: which of them is best in conduct.
SHAKIR: Surely We have made whatever is on the earth an embellishment for it, so that We may try them (as to) which of them is best in works.

018.008
YUSUFALI: Verily what is on earth we shall make but as dust and dry soil (without growth or herbage).
PICKTHAL: And lo! We shall make all that is thereon a barren mound.
SHAKIR: And most surely We will make what is on it bare ground without herbage.

018.009
YUSUFALI: Or dost thou reflect that the Companions of the Cave and of the Inscription were wonders among Our Sign?
PICKTHAL: Or deemest thou that the People of the Cave and the Inscription are a wonder among Our portents?
SHAKIR: Or, do you think that the Fellows of the Cave and the Inscription were of Our wonderful signs?

018.010
YUSUFALI: Behold, the youths betook themselves to the Cave: they said, "Our Lord! bestow on us Mercy from Thyself, and dispose of our affair for us in the right way!"
PICKTHAL: When the young men fled for refuge to the Cave and said: Our Lord! Give us mercy from Thy presence, and shape for us right conduct in our plight.
SHAKIR: When the youths sought refuge in the cave, they said: Our Lord! grant us mercy from Thee, and provide for us a right course in our affair.

...

018.100
YUSUFALI: And We shall present Hell that day for Unbelievers to see, all spread out,-
PICKTHAL: On that day we shall present hell to the disbelievers, plain to view,
SHAKIR: And We will bring forth hell, exposed to view, on that day before the unbelievers.

018.101
YUSUFALI: (Unbelievers) whose eyes had been under a veil from remembrance of Me, and who had been unable even to hear.
PICKTHAL: Those whose eyes were hoodwinked from My reminder, and who could not bear to hear.
SHAKIR: They whose eyes were under a cover from My reminder and they could not even hear.

018.102
YUSUFALI: Do the Unbelievers think that they can take My servants as protectors besides Me? Verily We have prepared Hell for the Unbelievers for (their) entertainment.
PICKTHAL: Do the disbelievers reckon that they can choose My bondmen as protecting friends beside Me? Lo! We have prepared hell as a welcome for the disbelievers.
SHAKIR: What! do then those who disbelieve think that they can take My servants to be guardians besides Me? Surely We have prepared hell for the entertainment of the unbelievers.

018.103
YUSUFALI: Say: "Shall we tell you of those who lose most in respect of their deeds?-
PICKTHAL: Say: Shall We inform you who will be the greatest losers by their works?
SHAKIR: Say: Shall We inform you of the greatest losers in (their) deeds?

018.104
YUSUFALI: "Those whose efforts have been wasted in this life, while they thought that they were acquiring good by their works?"
PICKTHAL: Those whose effort goeth astray in the life of the world, and yet they reckon that they do good work.
SHAKIR: (These are) they whose labor is lost in this world's life and they think that they are well versed in skill of the work of hands.

018.105
YUSUFALI: They are those who deny the Signs of their Lord and the fact of their having to meet Him (in the Hereafter): vain will be their works, nor shall We, on the Day of Judgment, give them any weight.
PICKTHAL: Those are they who disbelieve in the revelations of their Lord and in the meeting with Him. Therefor their works are vain, and on the Day of Resurrection We assign no weight to them.
SHAKIR: These are they who disbelieve in the communications of their Lord and His meeting, so their deeds become null, and therefore We will not set up a balance for them on the day of resurrection.

018.106
YUSUFALI: That is their reward, Hell, because they rejected Faith, and took My Signs and My Messengers by way of jest.
PICKTHAL: That is their reward: hell, because they disbelieved, and made a jest of Our revelations and Our messengers.
SHAKIR: Thus it is that their recompense is hell, because they disbelieved and held My communications and My messengers in mockery.

018.107
YUSUFALI: As to those who believe and work righteous deeds, they have, for their entertainment, the Gardens of Paradise,
PICKTHAL: Lo! those who believe and do good works, theirs are the Gardens of Paradise for welcome,
SHAKIR: Surely (as for) those who believe and do good deeds, their place of entertainment shall be the gardens of paradise,

018.108
YUSUFALI: Wherein they shall dwell (for aye): no change will they wish for from them.
PICKTHAL: Wherein they will abide, with no desire to be removed from thence.
SHAKIR: Abiding therein; they shall not desire removal from them.

018.109
YUSUFALI: Say: "If the ocean were ink (wherewith to write out) the words of my Lord, sooner would the ocean be exhausted than would the words of my Lord, even if we added another ocean like it, for its aid."
PICKTHAL: Say: Though the sea became ink for the Words of my Lord, verily the sea would be used up before the words of my Lord were exhausted, even though We brought the like thereof to help.
SHAKIR: Say: If the sea were ink for the words of my Lord, the sea would surely be consumed before the words of my Lord are exhausted, though We were to bring the like of that (sea) to add

018.110
YUSUFALI: Say: "I am but a man like yourselves, (but) the inspiration has come to me, that your Allah is one Allah: whoever expects to meet his Lord, let him work righteousness, and, in the worship of his Lord, admit no one as partner.
PICKTHAL: Say: I am only a mortal like you. My Lord inspireth in me that your Allah is only One Allah. And whoever hopeth for the meeting with his Lord, let him do righteous work, and make none sharer of the worship due unto his Lord.
SHAKIR: Say: I am only a mortal like you; it is revealed to me that your god is one Allah, therefore whoever hopes to meet his Lord, he should do good deeds, and not join any one in the service of his Lord.
