From kashdan1@juno.com  Thu Oct  1 14:47:50 1998
Received: from mta7.nts.uci.edu (mta7.nts.uci.edu [128.195.200.201]) by mercury.oac.uci.edu (8.8.8/) with ESMTP id OAA05512 for <nitemare@ea.oac.uci.edu>; Thu, 1 Oct 1998 14:47:49 -0700 (PDT)
From: <kashdan1@juno.com>
Received: (from daemon@localhost)
	by mta7.nts.uci.edu (8.8.5/8.8.5) id OAA10080
	for nitemare@ea.oac.uci.edu.xyzzy; Thu, 1 Oct 1998 14:45:47 -0700 (PDT)
Received: (from daemon@localhost)
	by mta7.nts.uci.edu (8.8.5/8.8.5) id OAA10073
	for nitemare@uci.edu.xyzzy; Thu, 1 Oct 1998 14:45:45 -0700 (PDT)
Received: from x11.boston.juno.com (x11.boston.juno.com [205.231.100.26])
	by mta7.nts.uci.edu (8.8.5/8.8.5) with ESMTP id OAA09989
	for <nitemare@uci.edu>; Thu, 1 Oct 1998 14:45:18 -0700 (PDT)
Received: (from kashdan1@juno.com)
 by x11.boston.juno.com (queuemail) id DQHN6GF5; Thu, 01 Oct 1998 17:46:28 EDT
To: chiyech@aol.com, psapp@cnct.com, godsway2@classic.msn.com,
        Simhatorah@aol.com, gould5@juno.com, geppler@earthlink.net,
        healer@earthlink.net, genek@tstonramp.com, glkingz@jps.net,
        lunartrek@juno.com, SKMORR1@pop.uky.edu, adar117@aol.com,
        Kdisciples@aol.com, ezralee@earthlink.net, tinker60@juno.com,
        drstokes@aol.com, nitemare@uci.edu, ravdavid@aol.com
Cc: ossifrage@juno.com
Date: Thu, 1 Oct 1998 14:32:50 -0700
Subject: Stephen <shofar@jps.net>: articles from Mal's website.
Message-ID: <19981001.144552.10078.1.Kashdan1@juno.com>
X-Mailer: Juno 1.49
X-Juno-Line-Breaks: 0,3-464
Status: RO
X-Status: 

--------- Begin forwarded message ----------
From: <shofar@jps.net>; To: <kashdan1@juno.com>; Subject: articles from
Mal's website.; Date: Thu, 01 Oct 1998 01:38:50 -0700; Message-ID:
<36133F98.C8E57DC0@jps.net>

   The following is an article from Malichis Torah scroll website.

We are told over and over again that Jesus of Nazareth is not the
Messiah of Israel, and given tons of reasons why not.

Unfortunately, it just doesn't conform to the facts. Jesus (Ancient
Greeks could not pronounce his Name correctly, and
Germans and English speakers had problems with the Greek way - His name
is pronounced Y'shua - ) is the Messiah of Israel ,
and nothing changes that (How do I know? Not just I, but over 150,000
Jews all over the world. That number is 5 years old,
and I could put it closer to a quarter million easily). And I'll prove
it to you.

If a Jew is an athiest, he is still a Jew, right? If a Jew believes in
Buddhist teachings, he is still a Jew right? If a Jew believes
himself to be one fragment of G-d (the "We are all G-d" philosophy of
the New Age), he is still a Jew, right? So if a Jew
believes all these teachings which contradict Jewish teachings can still
be a Jew, why cannot a Jew who believes Y'shua is
Messiah of Israel still be a Jew? If Y'shua is Messiah of Israel,
believing in Him is the most Jewish thing you can do!

THE PROOF: There are many well-meaning people trying to get you to
believe there's no proof in Y'shua being Messiah of
Israel. Well, again, that's just not true! There's so much proof it's
unbelievable.

Common Objection #1: Jesus did not fulfill any messianic prophecies.
Correction: Y'shua fulfilled all that were to come
to pass in the first coming of the Messiah. Y'shua fulfilled over 500
messianic prophecies in his lifetime, and will fulfill still more
upon his return! Many of these prophecies would be impossible to fulfill
purposely (I had no say-so in where I would be born,
and it'll be awfully difficult to pick into what family, or the manner,
date, and year of my death - but that one's a little easier than
the first two). They are listed later on.

Common Objection #2: Judaism does not believe in the Messiah dying for
the sins of Israel.

Correction: Oh yes it does! "Seventy weeks are decreed upon your people
and upon your holy city, to finish the transgression,
and to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, and to bring in
everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and
prophecy, and to anoint the most holy place. Know therefore and
understand, that from the going forth of the command to
restore and to build Jerusalem until the coming of an anointed prince
shall be seven weeks; then for sixty two weeks it shall be
built again, with squares and moat, but in a troubled time. And after
sixty two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, and nothing will
be left to him; and the people of a prince who shall come shall destroy
the city and the sanctuary; and its end shall be with a
flood, and to the end of the war desolations are decreed ." (Daniel
9:24-26) This is from the Tanakh, and Judaism believes in
the Tanakh. The Phrase Messiah is in the Hebrew Mashiach, and means
anointed one. Many bibles translate this word
Mashiach to be An Anointed One in this verse - one of the only verses to
specifically say Mashiach in the whole Tanakh! The
word translated as Cut Off is y'kareyt, which is best translated "Put to
death". Indeed, its meaning in the Torah is only translated
as "Put to death" (The JPS, which had no trouble with kareyt in the
Torah, here notes "Meaning of Hebrew uncertain". It was
not uncertain in Shemot, Vayikra or Devarim, now was it?). In this verse
(A Messianic Prophecy) The Messiah is to be killed,
to:

     "to finish the transgression,
     and to put an end to sin,
     and to atone for iniquity,
     and to bring in everlasting righteousness".

Yes, Judaism does believe the Messiah is to atone for sin by his
death."Our Rabbis taught, The Holy One, blessed be He, will
say to the Messiah, the son of David (May he reveal himself speedily in
our days!), `Ask of me anything, and I will give it to
thee', as it is said, I will tell of the decree etc. this day have I
begotten thee, ask of me and I will give the nations for thy
inheritance. But when he will see that the Messiah the son of Joseph is
slain, he will say to Him, `L-rd of the Universe, I ask of
Thee only the gift of life'.'As to life', He would answer him, `Your
father David has already prophesied this concerning you', as it
is said, He asked life of thee, thou gavest it him, [even length of days
for ever and ever]." (Sukkah 52a) "R. Johanan also said:
The son of David will come only in a generation that is either
altogether righteous or altogether wicked. `in a generation that is
altogether righteous,' - as it is written, Thy people also shall be all
righteous: they shall inherit the land for ever. `Or altogether
wicked,' - as it is written, And he saw that there was no man, and
wondered that there was no intercessor; and it is [elsewhere]
written, For mine own sake, even for mine own sake, will I do it."
(Sanhedrin 98a) This teaches the Messiah does indeed
intercede for sin.

Common Objection #3: Well, Judaism believes that when Messiah comes, he
will gather the lost tribes to Israel, and
rebuild the Temple. Jesus did not do that.

Correction: Judaism did not begin arguing that until one thousand two
hundred years later. That's an awfully long time after the
game has been played to raise an objection. But it is prophesied the
Y'shua will do this upon his return. Why didn't he do it the
first time? The Talmud teaches in Sukkah 52a and the tractate Sanhedrin
that if Israel was worthy, they would recieve Messiah
son of David, and if not, they would recieve Messiah son of Joseph.
Y'shua's adopted father's name is Joseph. Israel recieved
Messiah son of Joseph at Y'shua's first coming; they will recieve
Messiah son of David at Y'shua's second coming. "So he went
to him and greeted him, saying, `peace upon thee, Master and Teacher.'
`peace upon thee, O son of Levi,' he replied. `When
wilt thou come Master?' asked he, `To-day', was his answer. On his
returning to Elijah, the latter enquired, `What did he say to
thee?' - `peace Upon thee, O son of Levi,' he answered. Thereupon he
[Elijah] observed, `He thereby assured thee and thy
father of [a portion in] the world to come.' `He spoke falsely to me,'
he rejoined, `stating that he would come to-day, but has
not.' He [Elijah] answered him, `This is what he said to thee, To-day,
if ye will hear his voice.'" (Sanhedrin 98a)

Common Objection #4: Judaism does not believe that one must atone for
sins under animal sacrifice. We believe that
prayer, repentance, and charity suffice. What about those that could not
afford a sacrifice? They paid money for their
forgiveness.

Correction: The Torah specifies that Blood is the atonement for sin,
going all the way back to Bereshit (Genesis). The poor
made an offering by flour, not money. The offering of flour was placed
on top of the sacrifices already there (Lev. 5:12). In the
very next verse, it is written, "And the priest shall make atonement for
him." The High Priest, in his capacity as mediator for the
sins of the people, would mingle the flour and blood. This is why the
High Priest had to offer a sacrifice for the sins of Israel
during Yom Kippur. "Does not atonement come through the blood, as it is
said: For it is the blood that maketh atonement by
reason of the life!" (Yoma 5a.) "Come and hear: And he shall lay [his
hand upon the head of the burnt-offering]; and it shall be
accepted [for him to make atonement for him]; does then the laying [of
hands] make atonement? Surely atonement can be made
only with the blood, as it says, For it is the blood that maketh
atonement by reason of the life!" (Zevachim 6a) "The same was
also taught with regard to the rite of waving. To be waved, to make
atonement for him. Does the waving make the atonement?
Does not the atonement come through the blood, as it is said, For it is
the blood that maketh atonement by reason of the life?"
(Menachoth 93b)

Common Objection #5: Isaiah 53 has nothing to do with Messiah. It refers
to the Jewish people.

Correction: What do the Rabbi's say?

Rab said: The world was created only on David's account. Samuel said: On
Moses account; R. Johanan said: For the sake of
the Messiah. What is his [the Messiah's] name? - The Rabbis said: His
name is `the leper scholar,' as it is written, Surely he hath
borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him a
leper, smitten of G-d, and afflicted. (Sanhedrin 98b)

Targum Yochanan: "Behold my servant the Messiah..."

Maimonides: "Likewise He (King Messiah) would appear without
acknowledging a father or mother, as it is written, For he
grew up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry
ground."

There is not enough room here to cite Rabbinic authorities that confirm
Isaiah 53 to be about King Messiah! Go here to see it!

What does Isaiah 53 say? Let's see:

For you shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight; for the L-rd will
go before you; and the G-d of Israel will be your rear
guard. Behold, my servant shall prosper, he shall be exalted and
extolled, and be very high. As many were astonished at you;
saying His appearance is too marred to be that of a man, and his forms
to be that of the sons of men; So shall he startle many
nations; kings shall shut their mouths at him; for that which had not
been told them shall they see; and that which they had not
heard shall they perceive. Who has believed our report? and to whom is
the arm of the L-rd revealed? For he grew up before
him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground; he had no form
nor comeliness that we should look at him, there was
no countenance that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected
by men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with
sickness; and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and
we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our
sicknesses, and carried our sorrows; yet we esteemed him stricken,
struck by G-d, and afflicted. But he was wounded because
of our transgressions, he was bruised because of our iniquities; his
sufferings were that we might have peace; and by his injury
we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every
one to his own way; and the L-rd has laid on him the
iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, but he humbled himself and opened
not his mouth; he was brought like a lamb to the
slaughter, and like a sheep, that is dumb before its shearers, he did
not open his mouth. By oppression and false judgment was
he taken away; and of his generation who considered? For he was cut off
from the land of the living, stricken for the
transgression of my people. And they made his grave among the wicked,
and his tomb among the rich; although he had done no
violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it pleased the L-rd
to crush him by sickness; if his soul shall consider it a
reward for guilt, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and
the purpose of the L-rd shall prosper in his hand. He shall
see the labor of his soul, and shall be satisfied; by his knowledge did
my servant justify the righteous One to the many, and did
bear their iniquities. Therefore I will give him a portion with the
great, and he shall divide the plunder with the strong; because he
has poured out his soul to death; and he was numbered with the
transgressors; and he bore the sin of many, and made
intercession for the transgressors. (Isaiah 52:12-53:13)

Does this verse refer to a man, or to the Jewish people? According to
popular opinion, it refers to the Jewish people - if so,
who are "My People"? Isaiah was a Jew; His people were the Jewish
people. How do the Jewish people reject the Jewish
people? According to some, it's a messianic age. If a Messianic age, how
does it atone, and how can it have a scarred face? It
can only refer to a man. The Rabbi's believe it refers to King Messiah.
Read the entire verse carefully.  You'll see that it is a
man, he is exalted, and his face will be scarred. At least one Rabbi in
the Talmud thought this meant the suffering servant would
be a leper, because of this verse.

"Rab said: The world was created only on David's account. Samuel said:
On Moses account; R. Johanan said: For the sake of
the Messiah. What is his [the Messiah's] name? - The Rabbis said: His
name is `the leper scholar,' as it is written, Surely he hath
borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him a
leper, smitten of G-d, and afflicted." (Sanhedrin 98B)

This suffering servant will sprinkle many nations and make atonement for
all with his own blood. It also says that he will be
rejected by many of the Jewish people.  Will he be handsome? The Tanakh
says King Saul and King David were handsome,
but the suffering servant (identified in the Talmud as the Messiah) "he
had no form nor comeliness that we should look at him,
there was no countenance that we should desire him".  It says that he is
bearing sorrows and griefs; for himself or for us? For
us! And our reaction?  We say, "Hashem is smiting him!"  What do those
words "transgressions" and "iniquities" mean? Sins.
What does wounded, bruised,  sufferings, injuries mean?   He was
punished physically. If you scourge someone (lash someone
with a whip with metal tips), what happens to their back? It becomes
bloody. So with the Messiahs blood, are we healed. We
have atonement. Why do we need atonement? "All we like sheep have gone
astray; we have turned every one to his own way;
and the L-rd has laid on him the iniquity of us all."  We have all
sinned, and our sins were laid on the Messiah.
__________


ISAIAH 53 HOW DO THE RABBIS INTERPRET THIS?

Rabbi MOSES Alschech(1508-1600) says:
"Our Rabbis with one voice accept and affirm the opinion that the
prophet is speaking of the Messiah, and we shall ourselves
also adhere to the same view."

Abrabanel (1437-1508) said earlier:
"This is also the opinion of our own learned men in the majority of
their Midrashim."

Rabbi Yafeth Ben Ali ( second half of the 10th Century):
"As for myself, I am inclined to regard it as alluding to the Messiah."

Abraham Farissol ( 1451- 1526) says:
"In this chapter there seem to be considerable resemblances and
allusions to the work of the Christian Messiah and to the
events which are asserted to have happened to Him, so that no other
prophecy is to be found the gist and subject of which can
be so immediately applied to Him."

Targum Jonathan ( 4th Century ) gives the introduction on Isa. 52:13:
"Behold, my servant the Messiah..."

Gersonides (1288-1344) on Deut. 18:18:
"In fact Messiah is such a prophet, as it is stated in the Midrasch on
the verse,'Behold, my servant shall prosper...' (Isa. 52:13)."

Midrash Tanchuma:
"He was more exalted than Abraham, more extolled than Moshe, higher than
the archangels" (Isa.52:13).

Yalkut Schimeon ( ascribed to Rabbi Simeon Kara, 12th Century ) says on
Zech.4:7:
"He ( the king Messiah ) is greater than the patriarchs, as it is said,
'My servant shall be high, and lifted up, and lofty exceedingly'
(Isa. 52:13)."

Maimonides (1135-12O4) wrote to Rabbi Jacob Alfajumi:
"Likewise said Isaiah that He (Messiah) would appear without
acknowledging a father or mother: 'He grew up before him as a
tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground' etc. (Isa.53:2)."

Tanchuma:
"Rabbi Nachman says: ,The Word MAN in the passage, 'Every man a head of
the house of his father' (Num.1,4), refers to the
Messiah, the son of David, as it is written, 'Behold the man whose name
is Zemach'(the Branch) where Jonathan
interprets,'Behold the man Messiah' (Zech.6:12); and so it is said,'A
man of pains and known to sickness' (Isa.53:3)."

Talmud Sanhedrin (98b):
"Messiah ...what is his name? The Rabbis say,'The leprous one'; those of
the house of the Rabbi (Jehuda Hanassi, the author of
the Mishna, 135-200) say: 'Cholaja' (The sickly), for it says, 'Surely
he has borne our sicknesses' etc. (Isa.53,4)."

Pesiqta Rabbati (ca.845)on Isa. 61,10:
"The world-fathers (patriarchs) will one day in the month of Nisan arise
and say to (the Messiah): 'Ephraim, our righteous
Anointed, although we are your grandparents, yet you are greater than
we, for you have borne the sins of our children, as it
says: 'But surely he has borne our sicknesses and carried our pains; yet
we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and
afflicted. But he was pierced because of our transgressions, he was
bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was
laid upon him and through his wounds we are healed'(Isa.53,4-5)."

Rabbi Simeon Ben Jochai (2.Century), Zohar,, part II, page 212a and III,
page 218a, Amsterdam Ed.):
"There is in the garden of Eden a palace called : 'The palace of the
sons of sickness, <, this palace the Messiah enters, and
summons every sickness, every pain, and every chastisement of Israel:
they all come and rest upon Him. And were it not that
He had thus lightened them off Israel, and taken them upon Himself,
there had been no man able to bear Israels chastisement for
the transgression of the law; this is that which is written, 'Surely our
sicknesses he has carried' Isa.53,4).- As they tell Him (the
Messiah) of the misery of Israel in their captivity, and of those wicked
ones among them who are not attentive to know their
Lord, He lifts up His voice and weeps for their wickedness; and so it is
written,'He was wounded for our transgressions'
(Isa.53,5). Midrash (on Ruth 2,14): "He is speaking of the King Messiah
- 'Come hither', i.e.">Draw near to the throne<; 'eat
of the bread', i.e.>, The bread of the kingdom.' This refers to the
chastisements<, as it is said, 'But he was wounded for our
transgressions, bruised for our iniquities' (Isa.53,5). Rabbi Elijah de
Vidas (16.Century) :
"The meaning of 'He was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our
iniquities' is, that since the Messiah bears our iniquities
which produce the ef fect of His being bruised, it follows that whoever
will not admit that Messiah thus suffers for our iniquities
must endure and suffer for them himself."

Siphre:
"Rabbi Jose the Galilean said, 'Come and learn the merits of the King
Messiah and the reward of the Just - from the first man
who received but one commandment, a prohibition, and transgressed it.
Consider how many deaths were inflicted upon himself,
upon his own generation, and upon those who followed them, till the end
of all generations. Which attribute is greater, the
attribute of goodness, or the attribute of vengeance?'- He answered,
'The attribute of goodness is greater, and the attribute of
vengeance is the less.' - 'How much more then, will the King Messiah,
who endures affliction and pains for the transgressions
(as it is written, 'He was wounded,'etc.), justify all generations. This
is the meaning of the word, 'And the LORD made the
iniquity of us all to meet upon Him' (Isa.53:6)."

Rabbi Eleazer Kalir (9.Century) wrote the following Musaf Prayer:
"Our righteous Messiah has departed from us. Horror has seized us and we
have no one to justify us. He has borne our
transgressions and the yoke of our iniquities, and is wounded because of
our transgressions. He bore our sins upon His
shoulders that we may find pardon for our iniquity. We shall be healed
by His wounds, at the time when the Eternal will recreate
Him a new creature. Oh bring Him up from the circle of the earth, raise
Him up from Seir, that we may hear Him the second
time."

Rabbi Moses, 'The Preacher'(11. Century) wrote in his commentary on
Genesis (page 660):
"From the beginning God has made a covenant with the Messiah and told
Him,'My righteous Messiah, those who are entrusted
to you, their sins will bring you into a heavy yoke'..And He answered,
'I gladly accept all these agonies in order that not one of
Israel should be lost.' Immediately, the Messiah accepted all agonies
with love, as it is written: 'He was oppressed and he was
afflicted'."

Pesiqta (on Isa. 61:10):
"Great oppressions were laid upon You, as it says: 'By oppression and
judgement he was taken away; but who considered in
his time, that he was cut off out of the land of the living, that he was
stricken because of the sins of our children' (Isa.53:8), as it
says:'But the LORD has laid on him the guild of us all'(Isa.53:6)."

Brith Hachadasha (The New Testament) gives the following references to
Isaiah 53:

Isaiah 53:1
-"Even after he had done so many miraculous signs in their presence,
they still would not believe in him. This was to fulfill the
word of Isaiah the prophet: 'LORD, who has believed our message and to
whom has the arm of the LORD been revealed?'"
(John 12:37&38).

Isaiah 53:1
-"But not all the Israelites accepted the good news. For Isaiah says,
"LORD, who has believed our message?" - Consequently,
faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through
the word of God" (Rom.10:16&17).

Isaiah 53:4
-"He healed all the sick. This was to fulfill what was spoken through
the prophet Isaiah: 'He took our infirmities' and carried our
diseases' (Matth. 8:16&17)."

Isaiah 53:5-6
-"He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, so that we might die
to sins and live for righteousness; by his wounds you
have been healed. For you were like sheep going astray, but now you have
returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your
souls" (1 Peter 2:24&25).

Isaiah 53:7-8
-"The passage of the Scripture which he reads was this: "He was led like
a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before the
shearer is silent, so he did not open his mouth. In his humiliation he
was deprived of justice. Who can speak of his descendants?
For his life was taken from the earth<. The eunuch asked Philip, "Tell
me, please, who is the prophet talking about, himself or
someone else?" Then Philip began with that very passage of Scripture and
told him the good news about Jesus." (Acts
8,32-35). Isaiah 53:9
-"He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth" (1 Peter
2:22).

Isaiah 53:7-8
-"The passage of the Scripture which he read was this: He was led like a
sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before the
shearer is silent, so he did not open his mouth. In his humiliation he
was deprived of justice. Who can speak of his descendants?
For his life was taken from the earth.' The eunuch asked Philip, "Tell
me, please, who is the prophet talking about, himself or
someone else?" Then Philip began with that very passage of Scripture and
told him the good news about Jesus" (Acts 8:32-35).

Isaiah 53:9
-"He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth" (1 Peter
2:22).

Isaiah 53:12
-"It is written: 'And he was numbered with the transgressors'; and I
tell you that this must be fulfilled in me. Yes, what is written
about me is reaching fulfillment" (Luke 22:37).

Isaiah 53:12
-"They crucified two robbers with him, one on his right and one on his
left. And the Scripture was fulfilled, which says: 'And he
was numbered with the transgressors<."(Mark 15,27+28). .'" (Mark
15:27&28)




--------- End forwarded message ----------

________________________________________________________________
Why pay more to use the Internet?
Get fast, reliable, affordable Web access
>From Juno, the world's second largest online service.
Download your free software <a href="http://www.juno.com/getit.a.html">here</a>.

