---------- Forwarded message ----------
Date: Tue, 22 Jun 1999 02:33:56 -0700
From: Ezra Schley <ezralee@earthlink.net <mailto:ezralee@earthlink.net>>
To: "nitemare@uci.edu <mailto:nitemare@uci.edu>" <nitemare@uci.edu <mailto:nitemare@uci.edu>>
Cc: "cnw46496@email.csun.edu <mailto:cnw46496@email.csun.edu>" <cnw46496@email.csun.edu <mailto:cnw46496@email.csun.edu>>,
Doug Windsor <spinningthewheel@yahoo.com <mailto:spinningthewheel@yahoo.com>>
Subject: new messianic vision.

Shalom Philip,
a very good article. but not free from some extre leaps.
read and see, maybe this is more in line of what you are looking for in
a community and congregational settings.
maybe an alternative to chabad?.
maybe something for "SHOMREY" to look in to.
read and enjoy, you can share your opinions in a reply.
we keep you in our prayers.
Shalom lekha (peace be to you)
Ezra.


A Proposal for Nazarene Judaism:History, Identity, Program

The purpose of this presentation is threefold. First to give us a brief
history of who we were in the early centuries and what it is we are
trying to reconstruct. The second is to give us a positive identity and
last, to suggest a foundational program from which we can grow and
expand according to the will of YHVH. As I present this I do so as a
single man with whom G-d has given a vision of Torah and Messiah bound
together in the life of the redeemed. I do not do so as a representative
of the Society for the Advancement of Nazarene Judaism or the
International Nazarene Beit Din for we are a community and without their
consent and approval I cannot speak for them and the vision they have,
although it is obviously similar. I submit the following as a beginning
point of discussion from which we as a community can develop a cohesive
vision, identity and program. The challenge that lies before us in
Netzrim Judaism is enormous. In some ways it is analogous the the
recreation of the state of Israel after almost two millennia. The
Israelis needed to resurrect institutions, ideas and even a language
that had not been used for centuries. Nazarene Judaism is embarking on
an even more ambitious project. We are attempting to recreate a paradigm
of theology, philosophy, belief and practice that has not existed since
the second century. The early community of Yahushua's followers, led by
Ya'akov His brother, was a community within the community of Israel
who's belief and practice was very similar to their fellow Jews except
that they were no longer waiting for G-d's anointed. They believed He
had come, lived, died, was resurrected and now sat at the right hand of
YHVH awaiting the "Day of the Lord" which they believed was right around
the corner. They believed the 'Renewed Covenant' about which Jeremiah
had prophesied was inaugurated through Yahushua, that Torah was now
written on their hearts and atonement for the people had finally been
accomplished once and for all. They worshipped at the Temple and
attended synagogue, they studied Torah and were zealous in their
obedience to the commandments. They loved their people and sought both
their spiritual completion and their material blessing. Gentiles came
into this community and were encouraged to develop the same love for
Messiah, Torah and people that their natural born brothers had.

Unfortunately, the socio-political events of the first century conspired
against this community. The anti-Judaic feelings endemic to Roman
culture made Gentiles less willing to adopt the religio-cultural context
of which the Messiah was a part, particularly after the war with Rome.
And the Jewish leadership, followed by the majority of the populace, did
not believe that the man crucified by the Romans was the Messiah. Soon
there were two new religions that sprung up out of the ashes of the
Temple. One rejected Torah and Judaism while recasting Israel's Messiah
in a Greek mold. Christianity was the result of this development. The
Rabbis of Yavneh took an ancient religion centered on a temple,
priesthood and sacrifice and recast it, out of necessity, as a spiritual
religion of works, ritual purity, philosophy and introspection, of which
one of the fundamental tenants was that Yahushua was not the Messiah.
The Nazarenes were ignored by both groups in their evolution because
they came to be viewed as a small eccentric or heretical minority. They
could have been a bridge of understanding and enriched both religions as
the complete package of G-d's plan but they passed from the scene with
hardly a mention.

The interactions between the two majority groups over the past two
thousand years further complicate things. Those who have claimed the
Messiah of Israel and wrenched Him from His proper context of people,
culture and understanding subjected His people Israel, the Jewish
people, to the most severe forms of persecution in the name of their
reinterpreted 'Christ'.

Naturally, this resulted in a strong reaction on the part of the Jewish
people against the idea that the historical person, Yahushua, who was
the raw material from which the church formed Jesus, the anti-Torah,
anti-Jew, mangod, could ever have been the Promised One of Moshe and the
Prophets.

Reactionary theology developed from both sides making real communication
about the central issues of covenant, peoplehood, Torah, chosenness and
the Messiah nearly impossible.

So the task we have before us is this. We need to take a messianic idea
which has been twisted and corrupted horribly for nineteen hundred years
by a man made, anti-Jewish religion of persecutors, remove all the junk,
clutter and additions to get down to the truth of Who He was and what He
taught. We also need to remove nineteen hundred years of superstition,
anti-messianic ideas and reactionary theology from what we know as
Judaism to discover what YHVH really wants His people to live like and
believe. And in order for either task to be accomplished we need to
uncover the history of a small group within a small people on the
eastern shore of the Mediterranean which neither of the majority groups
want to acknowledge. Christians don't want to remember the Nazarenes
because the foundation of their religion is anti-Judaic and these people
were Torah loving Jews who believed in the same Messiah they claim to.
To admit that 'St. James', 'St. Peter' and even the beloved 'St. Paul',
whose example they were encouraged to follow, were Torah observant Jews
their whole lives and even beyond that, taught Torah and loved the
Jewish people, would be tantamount to pulling the foundation out from
under their religion and cast doubt on everything they have been taught
to do and believe. The Jewish people don't want to acknowledge the
Nazarenes because they have gladly accepted the Christian's claim that
Judaism and the Messiah are mutually exclusive. Once one believes in the
messiah the church claims, one is no longer a Jew but a 'Christian'. To
admit the Nazarenes were Torah observant Jews would be a direct
challenge to that assumption and force them to look at the claims of
Yahushua anew, not in a Christian context, but in a Jewish one.

But God has been at work for almost two hundred years to restore what
was lost, Torah centered messianic faith. The Sabbaterians, the Hebrew
Christians and the Messianic Jews have been rediscovering Torah from the
Christian side, there has been a recent move among Reform Jews to
reestablish Torah observance and, among a small number of orthodox Jews,
an honest reevaluation of the claims of Yahushua as the Messiah of
Israel. All this has pointed to the reestablishment of a truly Jewish
community of Torah observant people who believe in the Messiahship of
Yahushua as it existed in the first century. We are on the crest of that
wave.

So the first question that must be answered is 'What was the Natzrim
community like?' How did they live, what did they believe, how did they
understand the fulfillment of the hopes of their people? To answer that
question we shall take a brief look at the life and teachings of
Yahushua Himself and then look at those who comprised the Natzrim
community after His death and resurrection.

There is little debate anymore, either in Jewish or Christian circles,
about the fact that Yahushua was a good, observant Jew. He came into the
first century, he lived in Israel, he walked among the Jewish people, he
lived according to their law and taught as many of the rabbis at that
time did. We know that in order for His sacrifice to be acceptable, it
would have to be 'without blemish', or in His case, sinless. Sinless
according to G-d's standard, Torah. Yochannan states in his account that
Yahushua was the 'Word of G-d'. He was Torah in the flesh. Torah was His
very nature and His life and teaching constantly reflected that fact.

The accounts of His life are replete with instances of His Torah
observance. He obeyed the Sabbath and celebrated the festivals, He ate
the right foods and wore the signs of the covenant, He exemplified the
true, righteous and holy Jew of His time and all time. And He taught the
same.

He said that Torah would not pass away before the heavens and the Earth.
He stated that all the commandments, the least to the greatest, the
moral and the religious, the ethical and the ritual, all of them were
important and adherence to them would make one great in G-d's sight. And
not only that but the commandments were to be obeyed even more
meticulously than the Pharisees and the spirit had to be pure and holy
as well, with no hypocrisy (Matt 5). The righteousness of those who
followed Him and would claim His name in the future should be
unquestionable. They should be known as the most pious, righteous people
in the world, according to the standard of Torah.

Yahushua actually pointed to Torah as the way to eternal life. This is
an idea that does not get much airtime but it is there for anyone who
has the chutzpah to look. When the rich man came and asked, 'what must I
do to inherit eternal life', he asked the question that everyone wants
to know the answer to. Here it is, the big one. And what was Yahushua's
response? 'Believe in me and be saved'? 'Accept me in your heart'? 'Pray
this little prayer'? None of the above! He asked the man what was
written in the Torah! And the man answered with two central passages in
the Torah, passages that had been, and still are, central to Judaism.
And then what did Yahushua say? Do this and you will live! Not 'think
this' or 'believe this' but do this. Do what? The two commands in Torah
that sum up the rest of it, the ones that represent the whole. So where
does He then fit into that equation? He is the Torah made flesh, He
embodies it and it speaks of Him (Lk 24:44). He is the reason there is
life in Torah.

Yahushua supported the Temple cult as well, which included all the
sacrifices prescribed by the Levitical code. (Matt 8:4) Even amid the
corruption that had become part of the Temple administration since the
time of the Hasmoneans, and in His day, with the buying and selling of
the High Priesthood to the Romans, He did not take the position of the
Eseenes and label it hopeless, nor did He disregard the system as a
whole (by this I mean the levitical and priestly rituals and sacrifices
and the idea of a Temple itself), corrupt or pure, as pointless and
without value. His followers would continue to participate in Temple
life until it's destruction.

He expected that His followers would continue in many of the traditions
that had already been developed in Israel. He warned them against making
a show of their covenantal obedience, 'do not make your Tzitzit long or
your Tefillin broad like the Pharisees', (Matt 23:5) but he expected
that these things, as they had developed up to that point would
continue. His disagreements with the Pharisees, to whom he was closest
and among whom his followers would gain the most adherents, stemmed
largely from two areas.

First, was that some equated meticulous observance of the commandments
to righteousness of the heart. As He pointed out, one can be very
exacting in one's Torah obedience and still be a rotten person. He
reprimanded the Pharisees (who were well aware of the hypocrites in
three midst) that they would tithe even their spices but had ignored
justice and mercy in their dealings with their fellow men (Matt 23:23).
Yahushua told them they should concentrate on the latter, that is
justice and mercy, while not neglecting the former, the tithe. Their
second mistaken assumption was that the priestly rituals and purity laws
should be applied to every Jew all the time. The washing of the hands,
for example, came from the priests who washed themselves before they
offered sacrifices. Now, in the mind of a Pharisee, he was the priest of
his home and his table was his altar therefore it was proper for him to
ritually wash his hands. Now while it may be acceptable to take on more
Torah than applies to you, to upbraid someone who does not as a sinner
is improper. This idea of maintaining priestly ritual purity would again
rear it's ugly head when it came time to expand the mission to the
Goyim.

He also accepted the authority of the Pharisees to interpret the Law.
They sat in Moshe's seat and he told his followers to listen to them
(Matt 23:2). Overall, this would point to His acceptance of Jewish
tradition, the Oral Law, as it had developed up to that point according
to the judgements of the Sanhedrin and judges of Israel. He rejected the
view of the Sadducees and the Karites of a later time, that the Oral Law
is not a valuable resource in teaching the community Torah. The leaders
of the community placed there by G-d formulated it according to His
command, it had G-d's stamp of authority. This is not to say that the
Sanhedrin and the judges were never wrong, the Torah itself makes
provision for their errors, but that would be the exception rather than
the rule. As Yahushua Himself stated, tradition cannot contradict the
written word of G-d (Mk 7:9-13) And recognizing that His presence would
change some things, He authorized His followers to develop their own
case law in addition to and not in place of what had already been
established and it would have the authority of G-d behind it.

After the death and resurrection of Yahushua, things continued along the
same lines. In response the events of Shava'ut, and Kefa's preaching
which placed Yahushua and the Nazarenes right in the middle of prophetic
fulfillment, a vibrant community was formed. They were taught by the
Talmidim, who were a group of observant Jews from Galilee, they met in
the Temple, they ate together and said 'the prayers' which, no doubt, is
a reference to the regular prayers of the synagogue and Temple which
would eventually form the core of the Siddur.

While the fact that they preached the Messiah made the Sanhedrin nervous
because of it's political implications, they enjoyed the favor of the
people (Acts 2:47) and many of them were the personification of pious,
Torah-observant Jews. There was no new religion here. Yahushua had come
to call sinners to repentance and adherence to the covenant. He was the
fulfillment of the prophetic hope and a sign that the Day of the Lord
was near. He was the 'second Moshe', the Prophet foretold by Moshe
himself (Acts 3:22, 23). His followers had repented and embraced that
truth and sought to convince the rest of their people of that fact. They
were just another sect of Judaism, probably a sect within a sect since
they were primarily in the pharasaic tradition.

But Messianism scared the Sanhedrin, that was why Yahushua was put to
death in the first place. When Kefa and Yochannan stood before them,
they were not charged with a crime against the Torah or even the
traditions. In that case they could have easily been punished. The
Sanhedrin just wanted the messianism to go away before it caused trouble
with the Romans. Their decision of tolerance, reccomentded by Rabban
Gamaliel, (Acts 5:38, 39) for the Nazarenes is a decision that must
stand to this day because there is no comparable authority to reverse
it.

The community continued to expand and were highly regarded among the
people. Soon there were a group of hellenists attached to this orthodox
bunch. Hellenists were less torah-observant by definition and this gave
the Sanhedrin it's first real opportunity to come against this sect.
Stephen, a hellenist, was seized and brought before the council.
Witnesses falsely accused him of speaking against the Temple and the
Law. There is no evidence that he did any such thing but because he was
a hellenist, the charges were believable. He was stoned and the rest of
the hellenists were routed from the city. The Talmidim stayed, however,
because they could not be accused as easily and they enjoyed the support
of the populace.

The main perpetrator of this persecution is Rabbi Sha'ul, a Pharisee of
Pharisees, blameless in his obedience to the law. He meets Yahushua on
the way to Damascus and is healed by a talmid named Ananias whom Sha'ul
describes as a devout observer of the Law (Acts 22:12). He said this in
defense of himself and the Nazarenes and he mentioned it to make the
point to the people of Yerushalyim that they were just as devout and
Torah-observant as anyone, and even moreso. They were good, traditional
Jews who had realized the hope of their people in Yahushua.

In the second decade after the death and resurrection of Yahushua the
mission had expanded to the Samaritans, the Diaspora and geyrim; the G-d
fearers, gentiles who had attached themselves to the Synagogue, had
adapted much of the Jewish lifestyle excepting circumcision. Eventually
the question came up, what is the process by which a Gentile becomes
part of remnant Israel in the Messianic age? Some insisted on
circumcision, that nothing had changed as far as conversion was
concerned. Kefa and Sha'ul had seen G-d place His stamp of approval on
these converts through His spirit without this ritual. They understood
that G-d had circumcised their heart and placed His Torah within them as
promised by Jeremiah. They were full fledged members of the community by
repenting and being immersed. This was a difficult idea to swallow,
particularly for the Pharisees because circumcision was central to their
understanding of Israel's covenant relationship with G-d.

The issue was debated and resolved at the famous Jerusalem council. They
decided that Sha'ul and Kefa were right, entrance to the community was
by profession and immersion and circumcision was not required for
gentiles. As those who were not already G-d fearers came out of their
pagan culture, there were a few preliminary things that would be
necessary if they had not already adopted these basic features of Jewish
life. They needed to stay clear of idolatry, from sexual immorality,
from eating blood and other non-ritually slaughtered meat and from blood
or murder. These are the basics of righteousness required for everyone
who wants to start on the road to covenant relationship with G-d. They
assumed, as Ya'akov added at the end of the discussion, that they would
read and learn Torah as they were integrated into the community. That
these geyrim would continue in the synagogues and learn what it means to
be a member of the covenant community of Israel. They would eventually
internalize the values, theology, and practice of the nation they had
applied for citizenship in.

Did this happen? We can see by the evidence of the literature of the
Brit Chadasha that they did. It formed the framework of their
understanding of religion, Messiah, time, distance and G-d. Allow me to
illustrate some examples. Luke is possibly the only Gentile from the
early community whose writings have come down to us, and he appears to
be writing to another gentile. The language he uses shows that both had
been immersed in Jewish life and culture and adopted it as their own.
When he describes distance, he uses the term 'Sabbath day's journey'
rather than the Roman measure or stadia (Acts 1:12). When he describes
the time of Sha'ul's journey to Rome, he describes their voyage as
taking place 'after the fast', that is Yom Kippor' (Acts 27:9), which
also shows they accepted halachah (oral law) up to that point. Sha'ul,
when talking to the Corinthians, who by most people's understanding were
the most unregenerate Gentiles described in the Brit Chadashah, used the
term 'cup of thanksgiving', the name of the first cup of wine drunk at
the Passover Seder. This was a congregation Sha'ul founded. Who do you
think taught them about Pesach? When he was arguing with the Galatians
about Torah, what did he use to support his arguments? Tenach! It would
not make sense for him to use an authority he regarded as passe to
support his point. The Galatians obviously valued Torah and the prophets
as an authority. Who taught them that? The phrase 'lamb of G-d' means
nothing outside of Torah. The Gentiles to whom the leaders of the
Nazarene community wrote had an intimate understanding of Torah and
halachah. How did a bunch of Gentiles learn all this stuff about Judaism
and then make it part of themselves so that everyone was speaking the
same language? Either they knew it from being part of the synagogue
already or the Talmidim who introduced them to the messianic idea taught
it to them. Isn't that a scandal. 'St. Paul' teaching Torah and
tradition to Gentiles!

Over the next two decades the message continued to spread from
Yerushalyim and the original Talmidim continued to be the authority.
When Sha'ul comes back to Yerushalyim thirteen years after the council,
he finds a vibrant Nazarene community 'zealous for Torah' (Acts 21:20).
After his arrest, he vehemently denies not only that he never did
anything contrary to Torah, but he continued to live as a Pharisee
according to the traditions to that very day (Acts 26:5). The leadership
in Yerushalyim under Ya'akov ha Tzaddik, and including Sha'ul, set the
tone by adhering to the normative Judaism of their day, primarily
according to the pharisaic tradition. That all changed with the revolt.
Many of the Nazarenes fled Yerushalyim and those that remained suffered
the same fate as the rest of the Jews in the city. The leadership was
further decimated by the Romans as they tried to eradicate the davidic
line, from whom the Nazarenes had drawn the successors of Ya'akov. The
talmidim died off in the years before and after the revolt and there was
no comparable authority to reign in the divergent practices among the
Jews, hellenists and gentiles of the sect. Jewish religious practices
were proscribed to various degrees by the Romans in the decades that
followed which made the Jewish lifestyle even less appealing to the
average Gentile. The Gentiles and the hellenists became selective in
their halachah and without a strong authority in Yerushalyim to steer
the movement in the right way, many of the communities moved away from
strict Torah observance and halachah. The farther one went from
Yerushalyim, the less Torah was followed. Antioch, Rome and Alexandria,
centers of gnosticism and mystery religions, now became centers for the
followers of Yahushua as well and they filled the vacuum in authority
created by the razing of Yerushalyim. A few Nazarene communities
remained in Judea but as the minority both in Judaism and the newly
forming Christianity, they had little impact on either group in the
decades and centuries that followed.

These Nazarenes were still around in the fifth century, although by then
they were an insignificant heresy to the Christians. Epiphanius has this
to say about them; "We shall now especially consider heretics who call
themselves Nazarenes; they are mainly Jews and nothing else. They make
use not only of the New Testament, but they also use in a way the Old
Testament of the Jews. For they do not forbid the books of the Law, the
Prophets and the Writings...so that they are approved of by the Jews,
from whom the Nazarenes do not differ in anything, and they do profess
all the dogmas pertaining to the prescriptions of the Law and the
customs of the Jews, except they believe in Messiah. They preach that
there is but One God and His Son Yahushua. They are learned in the
Hebrew language, for they, like the Jews, read the whole Law, then the
Prophets...They differ from the Jews because they believe in Messiah,
and from the Christians in that they are to this day bound to the Jewish
rites such as circumcision, the Sabbath and other ceremonies.."

They continued to exist in small pockets into the second millenium, even
being subject to the inquisition for their judaizing. They were know as
the Pasaginians then, a name of Latin origin that describes them as
wanderers, much like the other Jews of the Middle Ages.

This tells us a lot about our ancestors. To briefly sum it all up, the
following is a basic description of the Nazarenes based on all the
previous information, a description of what we are trying to reestablish
at the end on the second millenium. Epiphanius also tells us that most
of them lived in the Land, they valued the promise of it to Avraham.
They were zealous for Torah and followed the Tenach as well as the
writings of the Brit Chadashah. They followed the Law and the customs of
the Jews, from whom they differed in nothing save the fulfillment of the
Messianic hope. They knew Hebrew and they followed the traditional Torah
and haftorah readings. They followed, for the most part, pharisaic
halachah. And because of all this they were approved of by the Jews.

That is the goal. To equate Yahushua with Torah rightoeusness and
lifestyle. A believer in Yahushua should be a pious Jew by definition.
Not a Christian who follows Torah or a Jew that believes in 'Jesus' but
an individual whose belief in the Messiahship of Yahushua naturally
expresses itself in Torah piety. In the first century, when someone
claimed to be a Natzrim, that person was a Tzaddik, by definition. We
should seek to be similarly defined.

Now that we have a basic understanding of what the original Nazarenes
were like and what happened to them, we can take a look at several of
the important issues involved in reconstructing their community two
millennia later. The concerns are many and correct understanding and
implementation will make the difference between success and failure,
between a comprehensive, unified community and a disorganized, confused
movement. Some have sought to go where we are heading and have gotten
lost and bewildered along the way. In reality, the difficulties are not
in understanding the history. The facts are rather straightforward for
anyone willing to put aside their preconceived ideas and assumptions and
look at them honestly. The real issue is whether are not we are willing
to examine some of our most dearly held beliefs and their underlying
assumptions and cast them aside if they are not in line with the
Scriptures. And then to adopt a system of understanding and a way of
life that makes one stand out in the crowd, that makes one part of an
historically persecuted minority. It is an issue of sacrifice. Of self,
of ego, of family, of time, of possessions, of life. Not an easy thing
but it is only when we sacrifice our life with all it's baggage and
truly seek to become the men and women G-d desires that we will succeed.

I believe the central issue that we need to address is one of identity.
With whom do we identify, or, as I have heard it poignantly stated
before, with whom will we be persecuted? Many people who hear of us and
what we are doing will identify us with the Messianic Jewish Movement (I
have experienced this many times) and by doing so they place us under
the heading of 'Christianity'. Both Jews and Christians who are
knowledgeable enough usually make this identification. We need to ask
ourselves whether this is the banner under which we want to develop our
identity.

Let's look at the Messianic Jewish Movement for a moment. Many of us are
familiar with it and some of us are still involved with it to some
degree. The following discussion is about the popular notion of what the
Messianic Jewish movement is all about and how it describes and
understands itself as exemplified by the Messianic Jewish Alliance, The
Messianic Union, related organizations and their leaders. Regardless of
what may be their deepest desire, which is to be regarded as a valid
expression of Judaism, just as the Orthodox or Reform movements are,
they are not and they never will be. Because in their attempt to do so,
they have kept one foot firmly planted within the Christian community. A
large part of their theology and worldview come from Christianity. While
they do reject replacement theology and so make room for themselves as
Jews within the Christian community, they have not, in most cases,
developed practices and institutions endemic to Judaism. As such there
are some fundamental problems with the Messianic Jewish Movement's
understanding of things and this results in confusion and disunity.

One of the first areas of confusion is that of religious expression.
First, allow me to say that there is a wide spectrum of religious
practice among Messianic Jews and their congregations, which, in itself,
is a problem. Some congregations are adopting Orthodox or Hasidic
practices and others have kept mainstream church worship traditions.
Ultimately, in the Messianic Jewish point of view, there are no
standards because there is no right and wrong in religious expression.
Allow me to explain how I can come to such a conclusion. While many
Messianic Jews and even some Christians know that Passover and Yom
Kippor are Scriptural and Christmas and Easter are not, there can be no
authoritative correction (although the Christians will sometimes accuse
those who follow Scriptural religious traditions of being legalists and
Judaizers!). This is because Messianic Jews see themselves as part of
the 'church' and they look at Christians as their brothers and because
of this they accept, to a greater or lesser degree, the Christian
interpretation of Scripture. They are all part of the 'body', the
Messianic Community, the universal Church. The result of this is the
practical understanding that G-d does not really care that most of 'the
body' are worshipping Him according to the practices of the pagans (Deut
12) or the 'Traditions of men' and while He may be pleased that some are
worshipping Him according to Torah, it was really only meant for
'ethnic' or 'natural' Israel. In the great scheme of things it doesn't
really matter because 'we're all saved', which is the ultimate goal of
both groups. I have read this described as the 'One faith, one baptism,
two expressions' theory. One cannot do enough Scriptural gymnastics to
support such an idea. To do so is to ignore all the warnings of Moshe
and the Prophets about the adoption of pagan practices and of the
corruption of the pure religion YHVH had given to the people of Israel.
It supports the spoken and unspoken assumption of the 'church' that the
'Old Testament' isn't relevant to them. It is also to embrace the absurd
idea that Shimon Kefa and that great Pharisee Rav Sha'ul accepted
Gentiles into the community of Israel while allowing them to continue to
practice paganism. That they allowed pagans to rename pagan practices
and celebrate them with equal validity alongside the festivals of YHVH
and see nothing wrong with it. That Gentiles could come into covenant
relationship with the G-d of Israel while thumbing their noses at all
the things those who had gone before held dear. That they believed the
Messiah had come to give ready acceptance to both Jews and Gentiles in
the small, unique community of Remnant Israel, regardless of their
behavior or the forms of their religious expression. Anyone who wants to
become part of the commonwealth of Israel through the Messiah does so in
the context of covenant. And covenants have stipulations that are meant
to be adhered to and if they are not, there are negative consequences.
For Messianic Jews to look at and accept Christians as equally
acceptable brothers 'in the Lord' and as legitimate 'converts' into the
commonwealth of Israel is to destroy the basis for the covenant
relationship G-d has always had with His people.

This brings us to another problem with Messianic Judaism. They don't
know what to do with the Gentiles. The confusion again results from
having one foot in either camp. On the one hand, they want to see
themselves as a legitimate branch of Judaism and to this end, they have
set up many institutions in which the leadership and policy bodies are
made up of ethnic Jews (although in Messianic Judaism the definition of
an 'ethnic Jew' does not usually follow 'traditional' halachah).
However, many Gentiles have become attracted to Judaism, as has been the
case throughout history, and a brand of Judaism that allows them to
maintain their belief in their Messiah is particularly attractive. Many
Christians have come to see the value in understanding the jewishness of
their original faith and some have even been motivated to adopt some
Jewish practices. And others, like many of us, have seen the value of
Torah as the correct way of life for the redeemed person and have sought
to apply it all to the best of our knowledge and understanding. But when
a Gentile comes into Messianic Judaism they find out that their
participation is limited to the perimeter. In the MJAA they are not
allowed full membership. They are not ordained as Rabbis. There is no
mechanism or procedure to allow a Gentile's full participation in the
institutions of Messianic Judaism.

In Non-Messianic Judaism, this is accomplished through the conversion
process. After a Gentile has gone through this process they are members
of the House of Israel, no different than their natural born
counterparts, with all the same privileges and responsibilities.
Messianic Judaism, on the other hand, does not see the need for
conversion. The Gentile Christians are already their brothers, fellow
heirs in the body of Messiah. Why would they need to convert? In many
Messianic synagogues, Jews and Gentiles alike are encouraged to pray the
'sinners prayer' at which time they enter the 'Church'. The Jew and the
Gentile take divergent paths from there, however. Once they come into
the 'Church' they have different responsibilities and duties. In the
Messianic synagogue, Judaism is practiced to some degree. The Gentile is
sent to a church with different practices. He can visit the synagogue
but it not really there for him, regardless of what he thinks. So the
Gentile on whom G-d has impressed the importance of Torah and Judaism
finds himself in limbo. While the Messianic Jews see him as a 'brother
in Messiah' he is held at arms length due to an accident of birth. It
seems as though the Messianic Jewish 'denomination' is a 'Jews only'
club.

Another problem is Messianic Judaism is ambivalent about Torah. Since it
seems as though Messianic Judaism is another Christian denomination of
sorts, they have sought to pour the wine of Christianity into the
wineskin of Judaism. Outwardly, many of their practices are Jewish. They
wear tallit when they worship and they worship on Shabbat. They
celebrate many of the festivals and they wear kippot. Some synagogues
even have Torah scrolls and a few of the congregants can read it. But
inwardly, most of their theology and belief is Christian. Their creeds,
their understanding of the Messiah, the nature of God, salvation and
especially their attitude and understanding of the Mosaic covenant come
from Christianity. They don't know how important it is. On one hand,
they're Jewish so they know, at some level, it is important to them. On
the other hand, their brothers, the Christians, don't obey the mosaic
covenant at all. In fact, they have adopted many practices of the
pagans, something the terms of the covenant prohibit. But they are
'saved' just the same. Yet, both the Messiah and His Talmidim taught
about the importance of Torah and lived it out in their lives. And these
are the acknowledged founders of the 'church'. But the 'church' has
taught for almost two thousand years that Torah is not essential for
salvation, it is not important in a believer's life and may even be an
impediment to the Christian drawing closer to G-d. So if it's not
essential to salvation, Messianic Judaism cannot, with any real
authority, require, or even strongly encourage, Torah obedience among
it's adherents. Christian understanding says Torah is not important so
as long as Messianic Judaism remains in the Christian camp, Torah
obedience will just be one option of acceptable Christian religious
expression among many. It will be a means to an evangelistic end and
will continued to be looked at with suspicion (and rightly so) by
non-messianic Jews.

So what am I saying here. I've thrown out a a lot of terms here;
salvation, Torah, Israel, Messiah, Church, Jew, Christian and others
common in our religious debate. The definition of these terms is
something that we need to discuss as well. Messianic Judaism has
adopted, for the most part, a Christian understanding of these terms and
many of us, having been brought up in a Christian environment, still
think that way as well. As such, it would be easy to conclude from my
statements that I believe Torah, the Law, is essential for salvation and
all the Christians are going to hell. Taking salvation, Israel and
Torah, understanding them in the common Christian sense and combining
them as I have, it would be easy to come to that conclusion. Nothing
could be farther form the truth however. One does not have to be part of
the 'commonwealth of Israel', remember the Sabbath, abstain from pork or
celebrate the festivals to receive a place in the world to come (See
Israel, the Goyim and the Eternal Destiny of Man for more info here).
That is another issue completely but it illustrates the point that if we
are going to understand Scripture in a consistent matter, we cannot
blindly accept Christianity's definition of these terms for they have a
different meaning in Judaism.

Ultimately, the question which we must have the courage to face and
answer is, 'are Christianity and Judaism compatible at all?' Messianic
Judaism has said yes and attempted to make the marriage work and we have
looked at the results. I believe there are fundamental differences
between Judaism and Christianity in theology, practice and in the
religious communities themselves which require a negative answer to the
question. Christianity evolved as a reaction against Judaism and the
Jewish people around the period of the first Jewish war with Rome. It
proscribed Jewish practices more vehemently than did the Roman
government. It began to understand the Scriptures through the eyes of
Plato and Aristotle instead of Moshe and the prophets. They stole the
Sacred Scriptures and made them simply a preface to their own and then
redacted themselves into them to create a sense of legitimacy. They
changed the Messiah from a Torah obedient Jewish man Who loved His
people to a universal, anti-Torah demigod. And once they had the
machinery of the state at their disposal, they rigorously persecuted the
true people of G-d, something that continues to this day. Judaism is a
triad of Torah, people and land put together by G-d Himself never to be
forsaken or replaced. Christianity has proscribed the Torah for it's
adherents, persecuted the people and moved the promised land to the
heavenlies. How can there be any perceived continuity between the two?
Judaism holds dear everything Christianity abhors. Christianity is a man
made religion, a combination of Roman and Babylonian religion, Greek
philosophy and some basic Jewish ethics (although with all the murder
and mayhem perpetuated in the name of 'Christ', the last point could
certainly be disputed). Christianity has taken some basic truths and
ideas, removed their foundation and created a new religion. To put
Judaism back into Christianity is to put a square peg in a round hole.
When we present Nazarene Judaism to Christians, we are not educating
them about the roots of their faith, we are showing them the truths of
the Scriptures they claim. Christianity is not a form of Judaism, it
doesn't even spring from the same well.

What is the well from which Christianity sprung? It was the well of
Roman and Alexandrine anti-Semitism (used in the modern sense of the
word), it was the well of gnosticism and the dualism endemic to Greek
philosophy, it was the well of Babylonian and Roman religious practice
and culture. Let's take a brief look at all of these.

Hatred of the Jewish people has been around since there was a Jewish
people. Pharaoh hated them and killed their sons. Nebuchadnezzar
besieged their cities and destroyed their Temple. Haman wanted to
eliminate them from the face of the earth. Why? Because they "keep
themselves separate.

Their customs are different from those of all other people.." (Est 3:8)
They seemed to have nothing in common with other peoples. The Jewish
people were different and they are different because that is what G-d
wants them to be. Their light would not shine if they were like all
other nations. YHVH has called them out, He has chosen them, which means
the other nations were not. This creates resentment among other peoples,
it bothers them because the Jews are the conscience of the world. Their
existence says "our way is G-d's way" which means their way is not.

In the period leading up to the time of Messiah, the first true evidence
of anti-Semitism (as we understand it today) in the ancient world, in
the third century BCE, was in Egypt in reaction to an effective campaign
of conversion on the part of the Jewish population. Of course we cannot
fail to mention how Antiochus Epiphanies felt about the Jews and tried
to proscribe Jewish practice in the second century, leading to the
revolt of the Maccabees. In the first century BCE another, wider wave of
anti-Semitism swept the ancient world. It began in Alexandria and
Antioch, which, along with Rome, became the centers of Christian
understanding after the destruction of Yerushalyim. The instigators,
Apion, Poscidonios and Molon, said that the Jews were a race of shameful
origins, a race of lepers who had been cast out of Egypt at the time of
Moshe. Dietary laws and circumcision were corruptions of Moshe's 'ideal'
religion. They said Jewish separation had it's roots in the hatred of
mankind and of the gods, they undermined all other religions, they
worshipped a golden ass's head, practiced ritual murder against the
Greeks and that Jewish civilization was sterile and had produced nothing
useful. For those of you familiar with the history of the church in the
middle ages, much of this sounds very familiar.

Apion took his anti-Jewish feeling to Rome where he found a ready ear
among the many who opposed Caeser's pro-Jewish policies. In the first
century CE Sejanus, the man behind Tiberius Caesar, banished Jews from
Rome and had an anti-Jewish campaign planned before his execution.
Tactius stated that "the Jews regard as profane all we hold sacred and
permit all we abhor". In 40 CE Caligula planned to have a statue of
himself erected in the Temple. After the rebellion in 66CE, much of
Jewish practice was proscribed, and even more harshly in the time of
Hadrian and the second Jewish war in 132 CE. Most Gentiles in the Roman
world did not have a very positive view of the Jews.

Gnosticism had it origins in Alexandria, that great melting pot of
religious ideas in the ancient world. It was secretive in the sense that
it's adherents believed they has a knowledge (gnosis) that other people
did not have. The Gnostics believed in a incomprehensible,
unapproachable god who had no contact with the material world. The world
was created by a series of demi-urges which made matter evil because it
had nothing to do with god. The Gnostics believed they had the knowledge
to break free of this evil, material world and unite with the divine.
They interpreted religious texts, including the Tenach, allegorically,
they worshipped images, embraced Greek philosophy, they were sun
worshippers and they were anti-Jewish. Many of the church fathers;
Barnabas, Justin Martyr, Clement and Origen came from Alexandria and
their writings belie the influence gnosticism had on their Christianity.

Barnabas (not the companion of Sha'ul) was known for his allegorizing of
the Sabbath and anti-Torah sentiment. Justin believed that Jewish
religion was forced upon Israel as punishment by G-d. Clement believed
that the Christian was the true Gnostic and that while there was one
river of truth, many streams fall into on either side. Origen's opinion
of Torah was that the literal application of it's laws was never it's
intent and that one had to leave these things behind and turn the mind
to the good, true and spiritual law of G-d.

In Antioch, Ignatius (the authenticity of whose letters is in question)
said that if we live in accordance with Judaism, we admit we have not
received grace. In Rome, Marcion, a 'Christian Gnostic said that the
Jewish G-d was the demi-urge and since the Torah was the work of this
inferior G-d it should be ignored. He also believed in fasting on
Shabbat to show contempt for it, a practice already common in the Roman
'church' by his time.

During the second and third centuries, Roman and Babylonian religious
practices were adopted to fill the vacuum created by the abandonment of
Judaism, the facts of which most of us are aware. Sunday worship,
Easter, image worship, Christmass, a celibate priesthood, and ideas such
as the exclusive fraternity of the church for salvation, the authority
of the bishop of Rome, the trinity, the evil nature of the flesh and the
world and other Greek philosophical ideas. Often these inventions were
not adopted through reasoned debate but through all out war in which
forgery, slander, murder and rebellion were accepted practice.

In the fourth century John Chrysostom denounced the Jews as carnal,
lascivious, demonic and accursed. They were deicides and they worshipped
the devil. St Jerome said about the synagogue 'If you call it a brothel,
a den of vice, the devil's refuge, Satan's fortress a place to deprave
the soul, an abyss of every conceivable disaster or whatever else you
will, you are still saying less that it deserves'. Synagogues were burnt
to the ground at the instigation of the church bishops. This was the
time of Augustine, who, more than any other individual, dominated
Christian thought for a thousand years, and whose influence is still
felt today. The concept of original sin and the idea that salvation was
only to be found in the church were his inventions. He was a strong
proponent of using the sword to enforce orthodoxy, bring about
conversion and punish heretics and Jews. He divided the world into
Christians, who were the only saved ones, and everyone else, all of whom
were going to hell because of their inherent wickedness. The Jews were
to be kept in perpetual slavery to bear witness to the triumph of the
church. There is a direct line from the 'church fathers' to the
atrocities of the crusades, the inquisition, the pogroms and the
holocaust. Yahushua said 'by their fruits you will know them'. The fruit
of Christianity shows that it does not come from the root of Israel or
Israel's Messiah. It is not in any way represenative of the Messiah of
Israel or those who folowed Him.

This brief look at the facts should show that Christianity has much more
in common with the religions and philosophies of the ancient world that
it does with Judaism. The Gentiles (and hellenized Jews) thought the
idea of being G-d's chosen and going to heaven through someone else's
work (Yahushua's) was a good one but tying it to the Judaism many of
them had been taught to abhor and which was proscribed by the empire was
not. So they took the Jew Yahushua and transformed him into a demi-god,
placed him in Greek clothes and put him in their religious and
philosophical context. Beyond the externals of a messianic idea and some
basic ethics, Judaism and Christianity have little in common. Their
theology, philosophy, world-view, ways of thinking and religious
practices are on opposite ends of the spectrum. They cannot be combined
in a way that is truly meaningful and consistent.

If we have the courage to face and accept that truth and accept the
consequences of that truth, most of our confusion and uncertainty will
go away. What are the consequences of that truth? First, the Jewish
community will continue to be very skeptical of us and it is going to
take a lot of time and consistency on our part to allay their fears and
concerns. The Jewish community is suspicious by nature of anything they
perceive as foreign because of their history. There will continue to be
a 'knee-jerk' rejection of us because of their preconceived ideas about
us and the labels they will continue to try to force on us. We will
continue to be labeled as 'Jews for Jesus' and 'Messianic Jews' or
'Jewish Christians'. But we must patiently continue to explain our
purpose and mission, carving out a new niche and placing a new label on
ourselves that will accurately describe who we are and what we're about.
And there are rays of hope. Particularly in the orthodox community where
Torah obedience is valued almost above all else, there has been some
positive movement. As we continue to put value on the same things and
consistently, through word and action demonstrate in whose camp we are,
the walls will slowly come down. Again, it will be a slow process. Keep
in mind that the acceptance of the Chasidim into the mainstream Jewish
fold took nearly four generations.

Those reactions, many of us are used to. The reaction from the Christian
community will be different. We must always keep in the front our
thinking that it is pleasing G-d that is the most important thing. Many
of us have gotten used to the help of Christians and the churches, we
have operated under their blessing, we have met in their buildings and
have drawn many visitors and even some adherents from their ranks. The
label of 'Messianic Jewish' many of us have accepted either actively or
passively has allowed this free flow of people and assistance between us
and the church. This will eventually come to a stop; it must if we
desire to place both feet in the camp of Israel. The Jewish community is
not going to believe anything we say about ourselves when we meet in a
church building and belt out 'Amazing Grace' during worship. As we
consistently declare we are not Christians, that we do not accept their
theology and interpretation of the Scriptures, that we are not their
intimate brothers and 'co-heirs' with their messiah, they will reject us
and look at us with suspicion. This is not to say that we will cease to
cooperate with Christians in encouraging righteousness among all peoples
and working towards common goals, just as the Jewish and Christian
communities do today. But cooperation in 'evangelism' or other such
things will no longer be possible. We are not preaching the same messiah
and our idea of discipleship will be completely different. Eventually,
if they haven't already, they will label us a cult, which in an
interesting phenomenon. 'Cults', according to Christianity, are groups
that operate outside of accepted 'orthodoxy'. And how is orthodoxy
defined? By majority consensus, and, in the past, by 'bigger guns'. It
is not defined by a consistent, honest interpretation of the Scriptures.
If it was, Christianity would be the largest and most successful cult of
all. Of course, no one will look at it that way. We will be the ones so
labeled and it will be much more difficult to draw people to us from
Christian circles.

So, are we slitting our own wrists? Are we in reality taking ourselves
out of both communities and ensuring our own demise? No, we are not
because we have the Truth and we have the promise of G-d that the
community He created would overpower even the gates of Hell. Israel
stands on three things. First, is the land promised to Avraham, Yitzak,
Ya'akov and their descendants and all who would join them. Second is the
Torah, the truth of G-d, the truth many of us have worked so hard to
uncover and understand and then apply. In many ways we have emphasized
this more than anything else. But I will say this, and this is
essential. While it is true that we are presently the most Scripturally
accurate expression of G-d's community and it is true that we have
recovered and developed many wonderful ideas and a consistent framework
from which to understand an apply the Scriptures, that is not what is
going to draw most people to us. While Judaism has many beautiful
rituals and forms of religious expression that reflect the mind of G-d,
that is not what is going to draw most people to us. The thing that will
draw people in and keep them as they grow in understanding is the third
thing in the triad; community, Am Yisra'el, the people of Israel. Before
we were in the Land, before G-d gave us Torah, Israel was a people, a
community. Because Israel is more than a religion, more than a political
entitiy, more than a world view, it is a people. If we focus on the
truth that the world will know we belong to God because of the love that
we have for one another, our growth will take care of itself. If we show
love and acceptance when others will not, we will grow. If we preach
truth and let the Ruach haKodesh take care of the conviction or even the
condemnation, we will grow. If we place our emphasis on living right
instead of believing correctly, many people whom G-d has touched or who
are earnestly seeking Him will find a place of encouragement where they
can work out their relationship with G-d on their own terms while being
surrounded with love and truth. We need to be inclusive, rather than
exclusive, while at the same time, maintaining the integrity of the
community. Truth is on our side, therefore time is as well. We can be
confident that when either a Jew or a Christian asks us why, we will
have the most Scripturally consistent and accurate answer available. And
for those among either group that value their relationship with G-d, the
Scriptures and the truth, they will seek and they will find. And they
will find us.

So since we have established that we are firmly in the camp of Israel
and Judaism, what now? How do we interact with this community,
particularly since they are not really fond of us nor do they, in most
cases, even acknowledge our validity. And how do we come back into the
stream of Judaism after such a protracted absence during which tradition
and halachah continued to develop in the Diaspora, in a world far
removed from the Temple and the land, a world of persecution and
ghettos, of superstition and Greek enlightenment, and often in reaction
against messianic belief, however defined. These are issues that need to
be resolved if we are to speak and act with one voice in the larger
community of Israel.

The first thing we must all do, some to a greater extent than others, is
to unlearn much of what we know. We are pouring new wine into new
wineskins. Much of our task is the creation of those wineskins into
which G-d can pour new wine. We cannot create our wineskins with a
patchwork of Pentecostalism, Chassidism, Calvinism, Platonism,
Rabbinism, and anything else that may suit you or you have in your
closet. I have already mentioned the importance of redefining some basic
theological terms, as in so doing, we will develop a new theological and
philosophic framework in which to understand Scripture, our relationship
with our Creator and His plan for this world. That will involve a
discovery and reeducation for many of us in the intricacies of Semitic
thought, in contrast to our western, Greek way of thinking. And while we
will leave many questions unanswered, many of which should remain so,
there needs to be a free exchange of ideas among all of us so we can
develop a paradigm that is authentically Jewish yet uniquely Nazarene
while being consistent, realistic and faithful to Scripture. We need to
educate ourselves in rabbinic ways of thought so we can understand some
parts of the culture and people the Messiah came to and so we can
communicate intelligently with the other Judaisms of our day. We need to
break cleanly from our past in the way we use terms, (such as referring
to the 'church' as part of the body of Messiah' and the equation of
'Yahushua' and 'Jesus') and the identity we hold (Jewish, not
Christian). This will require work on our part such as immersion in
Jewish literature, philosophy and theology to help us understand and
develop an identity with Israel and the Jewish people. It will require
interaction with the Jewish community and support of Jewish
institutions. And along with all that, we must also face the challenge
of how we should then live, what the halachah of our community should
be.

As we reenter this community (like it or not, here we come!) and hold to
Torah as the way of life, we must ask how we are to obey Torah. Do we
take the words as they are written and start over? Some seventh day
Adventists, the Worldwide Church of G-d, the Assemblies of Yahweh and
lots of other small church groups have attempted this route. But they
have not sought to establish continuity with the historic people of
Israel. Do we just jump in to the Orthodox stream as it exists today,
simply adding our messianic belief? The answer lies somewhere in between
reinventing the wheel and adopting the status quo. We cannot accept
Orthodox Judaism as is because it rejects our messianic belief and some
of it's traditions and theological understanding have evolved in
opposition to that belief. We cannot understand or evaluate the first
century Nazarenes exclusively through the eyes of present day Judaism.
Rabbinic Judaism developed in response to the Diaspora and Christian
persecution. It embraced the superstitions of the dark ages and the
thought of the Greek philosophers. The result, as was the case even in
Yahushua's time, was that some of the reasoning and assumptions behind
their halacha was flawed and resulted in practices that were not
reflective of the will of G-d or consistent with the rest of Torah. Such
practices and ideas can have no place of real value in our halachic
system. But most of what is historically consistent in Judaism is
valuable and meaningful. Most of the traditions, many of which we take
for granted, are beautiful and are filled with both obvious and
intricate meaning and they help us develop our relationship with G-d and
our expression of Torah obedience. And if we truly desire to be
recognized among the greater commonwealth of Israel, we must respect the
community's authority to establish halachah, historically and presently.
And by the community, I mean the larger community of Israel who have
taken the covenant seriously whether they be reform, conservative or
orthodox as well as the historical consensus that bridges the gap even
between Ashkenazic and Sephardic Jewry. Our disagreements with their
judgements must be undertaken with the utmost seriousness. We must show
respect to the history and the development of the people with whom we
seek identity. Keep in mind that the common divisions of Reform,
Orthodox and Conservative did not even exist two hundred years ago.
Before that one was either an observant Jew who took his covenant
realtionship with G-d seriously or he was not. So while the divsions and
their consequent religious and political relaities exist and we have to
deal with them as such, attempting to fit into a catagory that did not
even exist until recently is not something we should be preoccupied
with. It is the seriousness with which we take our covenant
responsibilities that matters.

Therefore, we do not do things only to seek the approval of Orthodox (or
any other form) Judaism. While it may be a consideration and a sign of
respect to give heed to the institutions and traditions they have
developed, their acceptance of us is not something we have any control
over. Individually, we may participate in some of those traditions
because we find value in them or to specifically to relate to the
Orthodox or Chasidim. But as a community, it would not be proper to
blindly enforce a body of tradition that has developed without messianic
consideration or Nazarenes. Ultimately, we must obey G-d rather than
men. Some of our disagreements are in areas we cannot compromise, our
messianic belief, for example. There will be other areas of Torah and
tradition that were part of the Judaisms of the first century that were
discarded and we are trying to revive which will put us at odds with the
present Judaisms. There will be things we should embrace that we find
inconvenient or pointless. And there are beautiful traditions we embrace
because they are right. The challenge for us as a community is to know
which traditions fit in which category for we cannot be, as many
Messianics are, selective in our Torah obedience and our halacha,
arbitrarily doing what we personally find meaningful and ignoring the
rest. This is a task that must be taken up with the utmost seriousness,
founded on biblical integrity and historical accuracy and with a keen
understanding of present application.

Beyond recapturing the practices and traditions of the first century
community, I would propose the following as a starting point for
evaluation and embracing Jewish tradition in general. There are
traditions that are part of Judaism in general, traditions that span the
divisions of Orthodox, Conservative and Reform, Ashkenazic and
Sephardic. These traditions, such as the seder, the siddur, the
prohibition of milk and meat, and the division of the Torah portions,
for example, are ones that are understood by all of Judaism to be
normative. That is not to say that all of the Judaisms practice such
things but they all recognize that if one were to be a 'good Jew', one
would adhere to such traditions. These are traditions we should embrace.
And this is the reason why. If we are seeking to be part of the larger
community of Israel, the recognized people of G-d, we must respect the
consensus of that community in matters of faith and practice, as long as
those things do not directly contradict the Scriptures. G-d has given
the community the authority to interpret Torah and we must show our
loyalty to the community by respecting those interpretations that have
become part of the historical fabric and identity of the Jewish people.
We have seen that Yahushua had this same attitude toward tradition. The
Pharisees did not ask Him why he was harvesting on Shabbat (Matt 12) or
why He didn't wash His hands (Matt 15). Their accusations were all
directed at the Talmidim, not at Him. Could that be because He observed
these traditions to show Himself to be above reproach in the eyes of the
community. Certainly the neglect of such traditions cannot usually be
construed as sinful. However, Yahushua apparently agreed with the idea
that the community, at least those who take Torah and covenant
seriously, who were in His day the Pharisees, have the authority to
determine what is normative in the practice of Torah, to determine what
makes one pious. Throughout Israel's history, righteous men who took
their covenant responsibility seriously have developed traditions to
assist them in fulfilling those responsibilities. Some of those
traditions have spanned the continents and the centuries. It is those
traditions and Torah interpretations we need to embrace to show
ourselves as part of the larger community of Israel.

The development of our community should be one of the first things on
our list. And it is something we need to work at because of the nature
of our development up to this point. Our development has been primarily
in the larger community of cyberspace which is probably a first in
itself. It has allowed a degree of connectedness and development that
would have been impossible a decade ago. The work of the Beit Din, the
congregational affiliations, the information published by various people
and the sharing of ideas among ourselves are all made possible by this
medium. But along with that comes the impersonal nature that is part of
the internet. The sense of intimate community and connectedness are
difficult to maintain solely through e-mail.

Because of this, the development of local congregations and their
affiliation to the whole is essential. It is the local congregations
that are going to meet the real needs of people. Anyone can read a paper
on the internet, many of us have written important works that bring
truth to anyone who wants to look. But we must be much more than just a
repository of G-d's truth. We must be a community. I know Dr. Trimm is
currently working on a program to 'plant' new congregations based on the
model they have used successfully in Colorado. Leaders extant in various
locales need to learn this program and implement it in their areas.
There may even be individuals G-d will call to do this work regularly.

But in order for it to be successful, there needs to be a support
structure in place to assist new congregations in their development.
This will begin on the local level with the closest congregation(s)
providing people, material, training and teaching to develop a strong
foundation from which the new seed will grow. There also needs to be an
international organization that will provide additional resources and a
basic mold in which a congregation can develop. The Society for the
Advancement of Nazarene Judaism has filled this role up to this point
but to be truly effective, our support of it needs to increase
considerably. Yes, I'm talking about money. If SANJ is going to be the
organization that will plant and develop local congregations, support
the work of scholars to define and defend our community and do whatever
necessary to get the truth to as many people as we can, resources are
essential. Literature needs to be developed, people need to be trained
and sent to various locations. I would propose regional conferences like
this to encourage connectedness among people and congregations in a
larger geographical area. If we really want to ensure success, and by
that I mean the replication of spiritually mature, Torah obedient,
Messiah loving individuals and congregations that are going to fulfill
the mission that G-d has for Remnant Israel, then we need to gladly
sacrifice our time and money to the larger community. For a true
community is one that not only shares the bonds of love and friendship
but also has shared ideas, lifestyle and when necessary, resources. The
development of a strong sense of community and community responsibility
is essential to our success.

We need to address this concern at this early juncture. For we have
already been growing at a phenomenal rate because there have so many
people who have been previously disconnected to whom G-d has shown the
truth of Torah and Mashiyach have finally found a label with which they
can identify. This is a great opportunity but also a problem. The
problem is this. How to take people that are by nature, rather
individualistic, who are responding to this great move of G-d, and
develop a community rather than a movement. We have seen the disunity
that results in a 'movement'. The divergent views of faith and practice,
the ambiguity that results from people from all kinds of backgrounds
appropriating a label that has not been clearly defined. The challenge
is to define the label in terms that are general enough not to be
authoritarian yet specific enough to provide unity, community and some
sense of standardization from which we can speak as one voice to both
the Christian and Jewish communities.

The International Nazarene Beit Din is a crucial part of the community's
success and, if done properly, will ensure we avoid the pitfalls of the
Messianic Movement. Unlike Messianic Judaism, Nazarene Judaism is not a
'do it yourself' Judaism. In Messianic Judaism, each individual or
congregation adopts the mitzvot and traditions they find valuable or
meaningful and ignore the rest. The results are very diverse and
divergent beliefs and practices with each one 'doing what is right in
his own eyes' although it will be rationalized in Christian lingo about
conviction or the 'leading of the Spirit'. We can not be so disorganized
if we are ever to be taken seriously.

Therefore the work of the Beit Din is crucial to the formation of a
cohesive community. They will answer the questions posed about tradition
earlier. They will respond to halachic concerns in our modern time that
have not been adequately addressed by the other Judaisms. They will
formulate a basic paradigm from which to understand the important topics
of Scripture, faith and practice.

They must do so with several things in mind. First, they need to be true
to written Torah above all else. We do not want to be condemned for
setting aside the command of G-d for the sake of our tradition. Halacha
must be consistent with Torah, Tenach and the teaching of the Messiah
and His Talmidim. The Word of G-d must come first, no matter what.

Second is a healthy respect for and understanding of the traditions and
halachic rulings as they have come down to the present age. And I would
council that, where possible, and assuming the other criteria are met,
orthodox halacha be respected, adapted when necessary and adopted as our
own. For if we lean in the orthodox direction, we will find find more
acceptance among the other Judaisms because in most cases even the
secular Jew knows in his heart that in general terms, orthodoxy is
right.

Third, they need to be realistic. We need to look at our present day
circumstances and fit our lives into Torah in a way that makes sense and
enables us to perform the mitzvot accurately and consistently. That
means we will have to make compromises with the modern life we live and
and with things that we do not have the ability to control. We need to
carefully balance the integrity of Torah with the realities of 20th
century life outside Eretz Israel.

Fourth, they must stick to the very basic issues and allow for
individuals and communities to express themselves and their relationship
with G-d in their particular situation while remaining under the
umbrella of general Natzrim halacha. They cannot seek to micro manage
for that would only create resentment and the result would be an erosion
of the authority they are seeking to establish. What they need to do is
create general principles and halacha that the individual communities
and their local beit dins can adapt to their own particular situations.
This is all done within the boundaries of Torah, of course, and there
needs to be some well defined boundaries. But the local communities must
be given the freedom to develop and adapt tradition so it is meaningful
to them and respond to situations that are unique to their environment.
It would be a good idea to have a clearinghouse to catalogue the rulings
from the local beit dins so we can all benefit from the wisdom they
apply to their situations. You never know when it may happen in your
community.

Finally the last basic issue we need to deal with is maintaining the
integrity of the community. This is an essential thing because much of
what is contained in Torah is there for that purpose. Israel's mission,
and ours by extension, is to be a light to all the world. We are to be
salt, we are to be the consciences of the world. And we understand that
G-d is not going to choose anyone else for the job. Therefore, He has
everything, including his honor, staked on us. We have a very serious
responsibility because when people see us, they are seeing G-d's
representatives here on earth. We are the priests of the world and as
remnant Israel, we are the ones that make the whole holy. We are held to
the highest standard and we need to hold one another to those standards.
The integrity of the community is essential to our mission and will
enable us to speak and operate as a true community.

What, specifically, am I talking about? I'm talking about each one of us
and each one of those who claim to be Nazarene Jews out there being
proper representatives of G-d and Nazarene Judaism. Proper in character
and knowledge and spirit. Let's look at leadership first for that is
where it all starts. If leadership is not united around common goals and
ideas, there is no way that those whom G-d has placed under their care
are going to generate a common bond and understanding with Nazarenes
everywhere else.

The unification of leadership is going to be around the Beit Din.
Therefore, let's start with them. The men (and possibly women) seated in
this crucial body must truly be men beyond reproach. As a group, they
are really speaking for G-d to the community. That is a very heavy
responsibility and there can be no place given to ulterior motives,
juvenile politics or hot heads. The prayerful and informed discussion
engaged in to seek the mind of G-d for the community is a job for those
who have spiritual maturity, impeccable character, a working knowledge
of Scripture and tradition and an absolute commitment to the community
as a whole. Their views and understanding which should have a relatively
long and consistent track record, need to show agreement with the
primary tenets of Nazarene Judaism as they have been developed to this
point. This means that the addition of members to the Beit Din will be
done only after careful consideration and evaluation. We are developing
something new here and it will be successful to the extent the
foundation on which it stands is strong and stable. That foundation is
leadership and the basis of leadership and authority is the Beit Din.
The work done and decisions made will determine the direction of the
community. Therefore, their work needs to be done deliberately and with
caution. And while there will be disagreements and not all the votes
will be unanimous, all members must respect the body enough to abide by
the decisions made and encourage those under their care to do so as
well.

Which brings us to those who have leadership positions in local
congregations who have affiliated themselves with SANJ and placed
themselves under the authority of the Beit Din. Affiliations should be
accepted with care and those who seek affiliation should be evaluated by
scriptural principles by those bodies they seek to be a part of. These
bodies need to be assured that these men and women are going to
represent Nazarene Judaism honorably and consistently. They need to
abide by the rulings of the Beit Din and be an example to those whom G-d
has placed in their charge. They need to be knowledgeable enough to
train others and have the temperament and maturity to do so. They need
to be mature people who have developed their understanding of Torah and
Messiah over the course of years, not weeks or months. They must have a
good understanding of Judaism and should have been living the Jewish
lifestyle consistently for some time. At some point an application
should be developed by which an applicant for affiliation can be
thoroughly evaluated and some type of certification given to the
congregation.

Which brings us finally to the people who make up all the local
congregations. How do we establish a basic consensus of belief and
understanding among a group of people from very varied backgrounds and
who are, by nature, rather independently minded. We will do it the same
way it has been done in Judaism for years, through the conversion
process. This will be a process by which halachicly recognized Jews and
Gentiles will develop a basic agreement of belief and practice and
become part of the community of remnant Israel. It will be a process of
education in theology and practice that should last at least a few
months during which the prospect will demonstrate his or her willingness
to adopt a Torah observant lifestyle as determined by the Beit Din and
the larger community of Israel and his or her commitment to the
community by their allocation of time and resources. At the at the end
of this time, the local Beit Din will evaluate the prospect and after
that, the convert will be immersed. This process is essential for a
couple of reasons. First, is the previously mentioned goal of creating a
cohesive community based on common belief and practice. Second, it will
protect the community from those who would appropriate our label without
accepting our values, understanding and authority structures. This is
especially true by the nature of our larger community which has evolved
on the internet. The third is that it allows gentiles to become full
participants in the life of the community because they will have the
same basic knowledge, lifestyle and values as do observant halachic
Jews. Finally, it is a witness to the larger community of Israel. By
developing a conversion process that shows respect for their halacha,
teaches people to place value on the same things Jewish people always
have, and creating educated students of Torah who are filled with the
Spirit of G-d, will will show ourselves to be true children of Avraham
regardless of our birth.

The secret to all of this is maintaining balance. This talk about
authority may have made some of you uncomfortable. This talk of
standardization and consensus. But the consensus that I am talking about
is the one that held the Jewish community together through most of their
history. While they may have differed in some of their theology, no one
questioned Torah as the way of life, their commitment to the community
was impeccable and they all respected the authority of the leading
rabbis to develop halachic understanding. They had developed a
responsible authority that was respected and and avoided the
authoritarian use of power. That is the balance between respecting the
individuals relationship with G-d and his ability to be led by the
Spirit and maintaining the integrity of the community and it's standard
according to the Word of G-d. It is the balance of respecting the
ability of local communities to develop wisdom and understanding in
their particular situation while maintaining a basic understanding of
faith that creates a feeling of community between congregations all over
the world. It is the balance between acceptance of an individual's rate
of growth in faith while never lowering the expectations G-d has of
every redeemed person. If we follow such guidelines with maturity and
work them out with council among godly men and women, we will develop a
vibrant community of individuals who will hold to the highest standards
of Scripture, allow the spirit free reign in their lives and are
committed to their fellow Nazarenes and Jews all over the world.

The opportunity that is before us is enormous and fraught with peril.
G-d is doing a great and awesome work all over the world. He is bringing
Jews and Gentiles to an understanding of redemption that includes both
Torah and Mashiyakh. The 'Church will not hear of Torah, The Jews will
not look at Mashiyakh and Messianic Judaism will not accept Gentiles.
These people whom G-d has called to Torah and Messiah will need to find
someplace to belong because they know community is essential in G-d's
plan. We can be that community if we are willing to make it happen. If
we are willing to put our time, energy and money into this community we
know as Nazarene Judaism nothing will be out of our reach. We are on the
ground floor. If we take the time and take what we are doing seriously,
we will build a beautiful work. Because truth is our foundation and
because as we build on and live that truth the Spirit of G-d will do
things with us and through us that have not been seen since the first
decades of the Yerushalyim community.

Rav Mikha'el June 1999
