Thursday, October 19, 2017  -  2020 Gtime / 1920 Ptime

     Dear Philip,

Thank you for your very thoughtful
and thorough reply.

First.  Let me say that I found nothing
disrespectful or inappropriate in your
sharings.

Second.  Before I go on to address your
4 questions -- I shall just say a bit about
your present heavy leaning toward the
non-existence of God.

The fact that you consider yourself to
currently be an agnostic atheist -- is
a good thing.  And you are right on
schedule.  This is where you were
destined { img of smiley } to be, at this point in
your earthly journey.

{ img of young boy looking through telescope }

I know that you are not only a seeker
of truth -- but also that you are truly
seeking it, daily.  Sometimes more
often than that.

           This -- also is good.

A bit on me -- in that department.

I cannot remember a time when I
did not believe in God.

The degree of my involvement in
my relationship with Him has
certainly fluctuated over the years.

But I have never really been able
to set aside an inner knowing that
He sits at-the-top of my enjoying
a consciousness too.

H'ever.  There have also been a few
times along my paseo -- when I
questioned His existence.

Bottom Line:  I simply have never
been able to muster sufficient faith
to hold onto an atheistic view of my
"came from."

     My mind is just not that strong.

And.  In response to my seeking
a real substantial proof that He
truly does exist -- He says:

"Take a good look at Pip.
      Do you not see Me in Him ?"

And -- I had to admit.  I do.
Unquestionably.  I see God in you!

{ img of green valley with "God is within you" above && Lk 17:21 below }

     And now -- on to your questions.

PD1-Q#0: Do you think there is a good
way I can understand the problem of
general human unhappiness as primarily
being the direct consequence of not doing
what we were "designed" to do, without
first returning to some significant belief
that there is some involved intelligent
"Designer" deity?

PD1-A#0:  No.  I do not.

But then -- thinking about that a bit more
-- let me suggest this:

Let's assume that you have no inherent
design -- no gift given to you -- which
you have come here -- to this planet --
to unfold.   Then ...

     Why are you here ?  Simply to bring
     joy to my heart ?  And warm feelings
     to those who know, and appreciate you ?

     Or -- is there more to your "why are ..." ?

{ img of really cute smiley Snoopy dancing }

PD1-Q#1: Do those examples mean to say that
whatever person is using them for alternate
purposes is really where the unhappiness lies?

PD1-A#1:  No.  Sorry.  I guess I was not clear
in my using tools / inanimate objects, in order
to illustrate my point.  Let's set those "example"
images aside.   And say ...

You have "doings" which you enjoy.  And ...
you have "doings" which you do not enjoy.

The doings which fall into the first category
("enjoy") make you happy.  Duh.  Enjoy.
Happy.  Same/same.  Yes ?

The idea, that I was trying to express, was
only that: most of the people in the world
are not going about their days here --
doing things which they enjoy doing.

Most people do the things -- in the course
of their days -- which they more or less
feel compelled to do.  Mostly more I'd say.

And that -- I say -- is why most people
are unhappy.  They feel pressed into
how they spend their time here -- as
if some great ogre in the sky has it
"in for them", i.e., doesn't like them.

So.  Let's change what I had said before
-- about why most people are unhappy --

from:  "They are not doing what they were designed to do."

to:      "They are not doing what they enjoy doing."

And.  My appointment is to fix that.  To show them
how to stop doing their "haftas" -- and start doing
their "wannas."

Which -- now that we're on that -- what do you wanna ?

    How would you like to go about spending your days ?

               And not because you were designed to do so.
    But just because you wanna -- you simply feel like it.

{ img of cute white boy, latina girl, asian boy, && black girl, all teeth smiling }

PD1-Q#2: How do we (at least mainly from just our
limited human perspective) best define "happy" or
"positive" and their relationship ?

PD1-A#2:  I don't know that I can accurately answer
that for the "we" of us.  How do you answer that for
the "you" of you ?

PD1-A#2.1: 

Here -- I shall offer a few comments
(and clarifications) on your "monkeys" paragraph.

I also assume you mean looking to get the "hundredth monkey"
onboard as getting 100% of humanity behind such fixing.

No -- absolutely not.   In fact -- the "hundredth monkey"
                                      is far (way far) less than even
                                    1% of humanity.  See PD1-A#3.

According to Wikipedia:

"The-hundredth-monkey effect is a hypothetical phenomenon
in which a new behavior or idea is claimed to spread rapidly
by unexplained means from one group to all related groups
once a critical number of members of one group exhibit the
new behavior or acknowledge the new idea."

     It is the concept of "critical mass."

And the "100th monkey" idea doesn't really mean
100 people necessarily.  But maybe 100 is enough.

We don't really get to define what the
critical mass is -- in any given situation.

Possibly the critical mass for anything is really 2.
At least, that is fairly strongly implied in Mt 18:19.

Of course -- in reality -- it is not a physical thing.

It's merely another (more visual) way of saying
that: once God sees that more-than-a-small-handful
of His children have come to embrace something
that He has wanted to manifest for us -- He will
step in -- and press it through the threshold.

Maybe you mean somehow convincing
actual monkeys to participate too.

Nope.  Just peoples.

You say we have the ball rolling, but quite a ways to go.
The text counting to 99 over the monkey image implies
we're quite close, but I think you just meant that as
foreshadowing for the distant goal.

Close to the goal of 100% ? 

No -- fantastically far from that.   See PD1-A#3 below.

But -- Yes -- we're approaching the critical mass.

{ img of world popul8ion growth from under 3 billion in 1950 steadily up to probably over 9 billion around 2050 }

PD1-Q#3: Do you have an actual percent estimate
for how close to fixed you think we already are ?

PD1-A#3:  Yes, I do.  But it's just a guess.  I'd say maybe
                 0.0013158%.   That is -- of the 7.6-billion
                 (or so) of us on the planet today -- maybe
                 100,000 of us are pretty well fixed.

I love you Pip.

-Dad  :) 
{ img of cute blue hand-drawn smiley balloon }
