Gerry Stuart
        
Nov 7 (3 days ago)
        
to me
Tuesday, November 7, 2017  -  1834 Gtime / 1734 Ptime

     Ok​ Pip.

I'm about a day late on this -- but there's a
lot of stuff I wish to cover.   So here we go.

As I said early yesterday (Mon Nov 6) morning
-- I loved your A#1.   Excellent Philip.   :)

               

On A#2 (the "payment" issue)  :::  Your
"alternative proposal" has quite a bit of merit.

Let's lean that direction -- for now.   And we
can tweak or modify it as we move ahead on
this project.   Yes ?

     I believe I shall address my comments
     on this subject, seriatim -- as there are
     a number of things that you suggested.

(1)  -  good microphone
(2)  -  armature
(3)  -  high-end cans
(4)  -  keep track of your hours
(5)  -  new Tablet PC
(6)  -  monthly payments later

               

(1)  -  good microphone

     Yes.   I believe that getting you a decent microphone
     is a good idea.   But that's not all.   You'll need some
     other things to go with it.

First.   Let's talk about how you did your recording on
Sunday (Nov 5) -- and with what.

                    

           Next 5 Qs  (4-8)  are on the microphone.

Q#4:   What make & model of microphone did you use ?

Q#5:   Is its output mono or stereo ?

Q#6:   What do you estimate its retail value to be ?

Q#7:   Are there any switches and/or knobs on it ?

Q#8:   If yes -- what do each of them do ?

                    

           Next 4 Qs  (9-12)  are on the cable
           from the mike to the computer.

Q#9:   Is the cable physically attached to the microphone ?

Q#10:   If yes -- what is the connector on the other end
             of the cable ?
                 

Q#11:   If no to Q#9 -- what are the connectors on each
             end of the cable ?

Q#12:   What is the length of the cable ?

                    

             Next 6 Qs  (13-18)  are on the audio recording software.

Q#13:   What brand, version, et cetera -- of recording software
             are you using ?

Q#14:   What control(s) do you have over the signal which is
             coming from the microphone -- especially, but not
             only, recording level ?

Q#15:   What is the default type of output file ?

Q#16:   What other output file options are there ?

Q#17:   What signal quality options are there --  such as:
             ♥  Hz  ♥  bits  ♥  mono/stereo  ♥  others ?

Q#18:   Is there some kind of visual VU (volume-unit) meter ?


             This is the very best kind of VU meter.


  ​Or -- of course -- a set like this if recording in stereo.


However.   These days -- they'll probably look more like
  this -- which isn't quite as good as the "analog" style
above.   But -- the digital kind is better than none at all.

                    

(2)  -  armature

On this one -- you really threw me for a loop.

I thought I knew what an armature was.

     But -- maybe not.   I always defined an
     "armature" as   :::   the main core of
     an electric motor.

So.   I looked it up -- and I see that it can also
be  :::  a stand to hold an in-process sculpture.

     Therefore.   I'm guessing that you
     meant  :::  the microphone stand.

Q#19:   Yes ?

                    

(3)  -  high-end cans

I do not anticipate that you will be "doing significant
sound editing" on these narrations -- but possibly.

     We'll see.

However.   Whether that or not -- I too believe that
you should have a good set of cans -- in any case.

Q#20:   What brand & model of headphones are
             you using now ?

                    

(4)  -  keep track of your hours

Another excellent idea.   I hope you've already
started to do that -- with your Sunday session.

     Thank you Philip.

                    

(5)  -  new Tablet PC

I don't know that I need to know this right now
-- but -- when the time comes -- I'll want to
know exact brand, model, and any additional
bells and whistles.

                    

(6)  -  monthly payments later

That is also a good suggestion.   Let's talk about
that further as this project has progressed further.

          Yes.

               

Ok.   Let's move on to my comments on your  A#3.

     You did 6 paragraphs.

I think I'll comment on 4 of them.

     On the other 2 -- I believe I understand you.
     I think we are on the "same page."

               

A#3 - P#1

     You said  :::

"I feel almost ready to go "all-in" on this endeavor."

     Good.  ★  Let me know when the "almost" lifts.

               

A#3 - P#3

     You said  :::

"Please grant me an emergency panic escape button."

     I will grant that -- provided the button camps
     in Pennsylvania -- rather than Wisconsin.

               

A#3 - P#4

You asked if I could send you "like the top 8 thesis statements, arguments, and
results" that I have in mind.   That is  :::  "the major thrusts of" my "purpose."

     Absolutely.    ♥    I love the things you ask of me.  You make me think about
                                 things -- in ways that I've never really embraced before.  

                           ♥    You're very good for me.   You force me to personally
                                 develop the deeper me in me.

               

                   Ok.  Following are The Top 8 Thesis Statements
                          in our Personal Development endeavors  :::

             That our students will come to:

1  -  feel better about themselves.

2  -  feel (and be) happier.

3  -  feel (and be) healthier.

4  -  feel that they are making a contribution to the world.

5  -  feel that they are doing more of their wannas -- and
       being far less driven by haftas.

6  -  feel that they are far more in the driver's seat of their
       own lives, than they were before learning these things.

7  -  feel that they are using more of their creative abilities
       than they ever did before.

8  -  feel that they are not stuck under a repetitive cloud
       -- from which they cannot escape.

               

A#3 - P#6    In answer to your question  --  at the
                     end of Paragraph #6  :::  "Yes.  It does."

               

     I love you Philip.

-Dad  :)
