Two Videos to Share
Gerry Stuart <gerrystu@gmail.com>       Fri, Dec 29, 2017 at 9:43 AM
To: Philip <PipStuart@gmail.com>

Friday, December 29, 2017  -  1043 Gtime / 0943 Ptime​

          Good morning Philip,

This is Canto 11.

In Canto 10 -- sent to you about 57 hours and 32 minutes ago --
I finished up Section 5 of Canto 4 -- on Mr. Max's video from 2014.

               

In this email  (Canto 11) -- I intend to complete Cantos 6 and 8
                                                                         -- in that order.

               

And then -- I'll get to Canto 10 -- soon after.

               

Canto   6 - Mon  December 25, 2017 - 0101 Gtime / 0001 Ptime  -  I owe you a full reply on             on    your Canto 5 .
Canto   8 - Mon  December 25, 2017 - 1437 Gtime / 1337 Ptime  -  I owe you reply items 3, 4, & 5  on    your Canto 7 .
Canto 10 - Wed  December 27, 2017 - 0111 Gtime / 0011 Ptime  -  I owe you a full reply on            on    your Canto 9 
                                                                                                   -- which you sent to me at 0939 Gtime / 0839 Ptime
                                                                                                   on Tuesday, December 26, 2017 morning.

               

Canto 6

This is my reply to  your Canto 5  -- sent to
me at 0805 Gtime / 0705 Ptime on Sunday,
December 24, 2017.

Excellent email.   Thank you for all
the great comments -- and insights.

The one paragraph (Paragraph #1 --
as a matter of fact) --that I believe
I could say a bit on is this one:

Thank you for all your wonderful e-mails.

I increasingly cherish our contacts and
regret the many years you mailed me
hand-written treasures that I failed to
open before they were stolen from me.

          I understand this feeling. 

                  I had a similar experience
                          twice in my lifetime.

Once in March of 1992 -- when I lost
everything from the first 49 years of
my breathing -- with the exception of
the clothes on my back.

This was a bit devastating to me -- as
I have always been a "saver" of things --
and these 49 years of "things" included
thousands of photographs  (many of
Philip, Angie, and Tim) -- plus photos
and sundry other mementos dating back
to my early grade-school days -- in
addition to multiple 4-drawer filing
cabinets from about 30 years of my
adult years -- including the 8 years
of "Skylines" files.

     And then again in October of 2000.

     This one was not quite as thorough
     of a loss as the one 8½ years earlier.

My few items of furniture were saved
-- but about 8000 pages of journaling
notes -- and many other files were not.

What did I learn from these 2 experiences ?

Did I learn not to be a savers of things ?

             No.   I still save stuff.

But -- as Piece of Light 5b says:

     "There are no accidents in my universe."

I realized that my Father was not sleeping
when each of these "fires" occurred.

He totally "signed-off" on them.  And they
were "gifted" to me -- for my own good --
and ultimate growth.

In both cases -- I repeatedly told myself:

      What I don't have -- I don't need.

And -- of course -- this is in accordance
with Piece of Light 26 -- which speaks
on the subject of needs.

          Will these sharings of mine --
          help to ease your pain, of the
          loss of your things ?   Things
          which you wish you still had ?

Possibly not.   Just because someone else
has suffered what you are currently going
through -- really doesn't lessen your
present pain.   Because it's you --
and it's now.

     But I offer it only because your loss
     reminds me of my losses -- not only
     of things -- but also of various people.

However.  As my Father has explained
to me -- many times -- nothing is ever
lost.   He holds all -- and forever.

And.   He has the power to bring anything
(or person) back to us (me, you, whomever)
at anytime that he wishes.   And -- that
includes both of your grandmothers --
and my bio-father (whom I never met)
-- and any other person, thing, situation,
or experience which He wants us to
embrace again.

     More on these subjects is avail.

          Probably when you ask for it
          -- by way of specific questions.

My ex-girlfriend, Vanessa, was only able
to save a few dozen for me (while I was locked
in a mental hospital for the first time) before the
landlords, David and Edith Boxstein, changed
the locks and never returned the majority of my
belongings.

Yes.   I also am familiar with mental hospitals.

            ♥   1979   ♥   1984   ♥   1994   ♥

    Not a picnic.   But can be very enlightening!

                  That was by far the biggest theft
                         I have ever endured at once.

I always thought I could save all your letters
together and get around to reading many or
all of them at some later date.

     Oh yeah ?        What date would you like ?

At least I felt good warmth from your immense
love for me each time I received an envelope.

While I had competing priorities, I regard as a
failing on my part to digest and better preserve
so much of your messages and inked art when
I could.

So many opportunities to learn from and about
you all along that I have lost, and been stripped
from.

                             Oh yeah ?

I hope you can forgive me too please -- at least
for not making backups or sufficiently protecting
originals -- even if under extreme threat on many
fronts.

                    Oh.    Ok.    I guess I can.    Inline image 1

          Of course -- I'm kidding.   Certainly -- I forgive you.

     Sometime -- we'll open the "forgiveness" folder too.
                                                          When you want it.

H'ever.    My (our) Father had / has another plan.

     It might not surprise you that He has filed copies
     of your Dad's communiques to you -- over (at least)
     the last 6 years.

Not counting birthday cards -- the tallies would be:

                2012  -    3  letters
                2013  -  43  letters & 3 cards
                2014  -    6  letters
                2015  -    2  letters
                2016  -    4  letters
                2017  -    1  letter  -  but never sent 
                                   -  only about 83% done

So.   Here's what we suggest.

     You tell me which of the 62 items you have.

          And -- in dribs & drabs -- I'll print-up the
          ones you're missing -- and put 'em on a
          pony to you.

                        Sound like a plan ?


(end of Canto 6)


               


Canto 8

This is my reply to  your Canto 7  -- sent to
me at 1022 Gtime / 0922 Ptime on Monday,
December 25, 2017.

In my first (partial) reponse to  your Canto 7  -- sent to
you at 1437 Gtime / 1337 Ptime on Monday,
December 25, 2017 -- I addressed 3 items: 

⓿  -  Blown away
❶  -  Dr. Pete
❷  -  Upcoming topics - in which I said:



At least 3 more​ things ❸❹❺ from
this
(your most recent) email -- will I be
addressing shortly -- including your artwork.

                   
​

                    I'll check back soon.



     So.   Now is soon.   Yes ?

         And these 3 other items will be:

❸  -  NIV Bible
❹   -  John 14:12
❺   -  Pip's artwork

         And they follow here.

               

❸    NIV Bible

I found my New International Version.

         Your New International Version Bible
                            will do just fine. 

Besides being in the list of my 7 favorite Bibles
-- the NIV is currently the best selling modern
translation of the Bible -- which it became quite
soon after its first release in 1978.

     There are now about 85 different English
     translations of the Bible -- and the vast
     majority of them are still being published.

          Including all of the English versions --
          the NIV only comes in at #2 in sales.  

The 1611 KJV (King James Version) is still #1.

The very first full (Old and New Testaments) Bible
in the English language -- was Wycliffe's -- in 1388.

          And yep.   Still in print.   As also are
          a few others betwixt 1388 and 1611.

     The Wycliffe is only $74 -- but I do not really
     recommend it.   Yes -- it is English.   But it is
     14th Century English.   And not very easy to read!

               

Interesting side-note:

     The best selling Bible of all-time is the
     King James Version.   And most people
     probably know that.

          But.   Very few of them know who
          King James was -- or -- what his
          last name was.

King James began breathing in Scotland on 
June 19, 1566 -- and surrendered his skinsuit
on March 27, 1625.   He was nearly 59 at that
time and -- at 57 years and 246 days -- his reign
in Scotland was longer than any of his predecessors.

     His mother was Mary, Queen of Scots
     -- and his great-great-grandfather was
     Henry VII -- who had been both the King
     of England -- and the Lord of Ireland.

          All of which positioned James to
          eventually accede to all 3 thrones.

James succeeded to the Scottish throne at the
age of 13 months -- after his mother Mary was
compelled to abdicate in his favour.

          In 1603, he succeeded the last Tudor
          monarch of England and Ireland,
          Elizabeth I, who died without issue.   

     He continued to reign in all 3 kingdoms
     for 22 years (a period known after him
     as the "Jacobean era") -- until his death
     in 1625 -- at the age of 58.

                His reigns:

   July 24, 1567  to  March 27, 1625  :::  James VI -- King of Scotland
March 24, 1603  to  March 27, 1625  :::  James I   -- King of England and Ireland

     The King James Version (originally called
     the Authorized Version) of the Bible was
     commissioned by King James in 1604 --
     and was completed -- and began being
     published in 1611.

              And.    His last name ?

     Do you know the last name of
     the Philip Alexander of Oshkosh ?

     Well then.   You know the last name
     of the King James I of England.


               

❹    John 14:12

Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me
will do the works I have been doing, and they
will do even greater things than these, because
I am going to the Father.

Of course -- I suggested this verse -- in my
Canto 4 email -- sent at 0120 Gtime / 0020 Ptime
on ​Sunday, December 24, 2017 -- in order to
punctuate my saying:

Be enthused by what they accomplished -- yes.     But then.     Know
that the reason that they came before you -- is so that you can do greater
things than they.   God made no mistake.   He brought them here before
you -- so that you could stand on their shoulders -- and create wonders
and works -- that they never even dreamed of.

     Yes.   Martin had a great dream.   And with it --
     he moved millions to
dream it along with him.

Philip Stuart will soon have an even greater dream.
And Martin's works will pale in the light of what
God, in Philip, unfolds.

Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me
will do the works I have been doing, and they
will do even greater things than these, because
I am going to the Father.

Of course -- most people who read this verse
-- come to a screeching halt -- when they get
to the word "greater" -- because their personal
esteem is just too miniscule.

     They have over-bought-into the adage:

:::   Do not think of yourself more highly than you ought.   :::

-- which is in the Bible -- and is a good exhortation --
if you understand the context in which it is given.  Rom 12:3

     However.   Its corollary is just as important.

:::   Do not think of yourself less highly than you ought.   :::

Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me
will do the works I have been doing, and they
will do even greater things than these, because
I am going to the Father.

They read this -- and immediately think to themselves:

"Is this verse trying to tell me that I (a mere sinning
mortal)  could / can / will  do  even greater things than
Yeshua did ?"     Well -- certainly John must have been
out-to-lunch when penning this verse.  How in the world
could this be of a truth ?!"

Sure.   I admit it.   For many years -- I also was of the
same bent.    I thinked John to be hallucinating too.

But.  As the years went on.   And my Father further
unfolded the mysteries of His Word -- and taught me
how to find the hidden truths -- in the most difficult
of His (not John's -- but His) passages in Scripture --
I came to fully see -- and stand-under (understand)
even such head-scratchers as this one.

Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me
will do the works I have been doing, and they
will do even greater things than these, because
I am going to the Father.


Now.   For the last dozen (or so) paragraphs --

we have been grappling with the "even greater"

term -- and struggling with the idea that we

(I, you, whoever) could do even greater things

than were done by the speaker of this passage

-- id est:  Yeshua.


And the problem (actually) is -- the word: me.

 

            Let's walk through it together.

 

I'll take you through it exactly as He walked me.

 

  1 - Who is Yeshua ?

  2 - He is called the Christ.

  3 - He is Me -- in a skinsuit.

  4 - He is my Son.

  5 - Son means "proof."

  6 - He (the Christ) is the proof of Me.

  7 - And -- the Christ and I are one.

  8 - He said that -- didn't he ?

  9 - Yes -- in John 10:30.

10 - Now.  Let's get into the tough (but nevertheless very true) stuff.

 

11 - Yeshua was Christ.

12 - But Christ is not Yeshua only.

 

13 - You call Me your Father.

14 - You call yourself My child.

15 - And so say ye well.

16 - You are My child -- My proof -- My son.

17 - Don't get tangled up in "gender" stuff.

18 - All My children are my proofs.  

19 - Girls / boys -- no matter -- all are My sons.

20 -                                                   My proofs.

21 -                                        Each is My Christ.

22 -                                                   My Me -- in a skinsuit.

 

23 - There is only one Christ -- yes.

24 - But.  Yeshua was only the first revealing of My Christ.

25 - You are the second revealing.  

26 - Or the 7,325,049,618th -- depending on how you count.

27 - If you are My child (which you are) -- then you are Christ.

28 - Christ is not a person (one skinsuit).

29 - Christ is a body.  

30 - And that body is all of my children combined.

31 - And don't pull the "I'm only a part of Christ" stuff either!

32 - That is true -- but it skirts the full truth.

33 - When someone asks:  "Who are you?" -- you tell them the name of your whole body.

34 - You don't say:  "I am the mouth of ... " -- and then give them your name.

 

35 - Paul spends 16 verses -- in the middle of I Corinthians 12 -- laying this all out for you.

36 - Did you drink it ?    Digest it ?    Did it stay down ?

37 - Are you standing-under it ?    Believing it ?    Walking it ?    Talking it ?    Living it ?

 

38 - Next time someone asks you who you are -- tell 'em -- straight out  :::  "I am Christ."

39 - And ye shall have told them one of the greatest (and most missed) truths in all of Scripture.

 

40 - Certainly.   If there are any questions about any of this -- ask 'em.

41 - But.   For now -- I'm going to assume (pretend) you got it !!

 

           And we're going to dig deeper into John 14:12.

 

Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me

will do the works I have been doing, and they

will do even greater things than these, because

I am going to the Father.

 

So.   Now we're satisfied that we (I, you, whoever)

can (and will) do even greater things than Yeshua

did.   Why ?   Because I am Christ.   You am Christ.

 

              Whoever has a skinsuit is Christ !!


Inline image 1    So.   Now we have the "do what" part of this verse nailed down.

                                   The "do what" answer is  :::  even greater things.

Inline image 4    The next question is the "who do" part.

 

        The question here is  :::  Am I the "whoever" -- in the ...


                              whoever believes in me   ?


Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me

will do the works I have been doing, and they

will do even greater things than these, because

I am going to the Father.

 

         And -- the answer is:  "yes"  --  if you are the one "believing in me."

 

First -- we'll address the "in" -- and then we'll get to the "believes" thing.

 

                      The word "in" -- is a preposition.







​





​




So.   Before I went into my  "There are no prepositions in heaven"  dissertation --

        the question was  :::  Am I the "whoever" -- in the ...

                                                       whoever believes in me   ?

First.   I think we should determine who the "me" is.

Obviously -- in this passage -- John is writing down
the words of the speaker -- which happens to be Yeshua.

But does Yeshua mean himself -- the person (the skinsuit)
known as Yeshua ?   Is he saying:  "whoever believes that I exist" ?

That's what 99.44% of the teachers around this passage would
have us hold to be the message here.    But.    It is not so.

And.     If you think about it for a few seconds -- of course --
you have to conclude that that interpretation is pure silliness!

He is not referring to the human "me" of himself.   He is
referring to the true "me" of him.   And who is the true
"me" of Yeshua ?

                              Christ.   The "me" in this passage is Christ.

The Son of the Father.
The very proof of God.
God in a skinsuit.     The 2nd Person of the Trinity.     The Christ.

Ok.         So we know who the "me" is.          The "me" is Christ.

Now   Let's get a handle on the word "believes / believe."

               

     Believing is not a head thing.

             It's not of the lips
              -- but of the legs.

     James put it very succinctly.  He said:

KJV                  Faith without works is dead
NIV                  Faith without deeds is dead

The older word "works" is the equivalent to the more
   modern word "deeds."   Your deeds are what you do.

The older word "faith" is the equivalent to the more
   modern word "belief."   Your belief shows up in what you do.

         The word "dead" means "unproductive" -- or (comes to) "nothing."

So ...                      Faith without works is dead
means :::         Believing without doing is unproductive

     James dedicates the last half of Chapter 2 -- to drive
                     home this very subject.    Verses 14 to 26
               -- and sums it up very nicely -- in James 2:26 :::

NIV                             Faith without deeds is dead
meaning               Assent without doing is useless

or                                Lips without legs yield nada

expandedly         Saying you believe something
                        without · your life showing it
                        equals · accomplishment zero

James says:    Show me your life -- your legs -- your doings --
                       and therein -- I see -- the beliefs of your heart.


                              

                       be·lieve   =   be / live

                              


So.   Let's recap -- before we move on in
        the unfolding of this John 14:12 verse.  

                    We said:

Inline image 4    The next question is the "who do" part.

        The question here is  :::  Am I the "whoever" -- in the ...

                              whoever believes in me   ?

Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me

will do the works I have been doing, and they

will do even greater things than these, because

I am going to the Father.

                    And -- we concluded that -- the answer is:  "yes"
                    -- if you are the one "believing in me."

Then.          We shared the abbreviated (though nevertheless
somewhat lengthy) treatise on "No prepositions in Heaven."
 
And then.    We thoroughly unfolded the meat of "believing"
                                 -- and that it really means "be·living."

So.   We are now ready to better translate the phrase:

                            " whoever believes in me "

♥    The whoever can be anyone who decides to "believe in me."

♥    The me is Christ.

♥    Now.  Let's decipher the "believes in" portion of it.

Method  A   of dealing with prepositions -- in a spiritual context --
                  is simply to discard the preposition.   Let's try that.
           
                                  " whoever believes     Christ "
                                  " whoever bees living Christ "
                                  " whoever      is living Christ "

                  Yeah.   That works.

     Very truly I tell you,       whoever is living Christ

     will do the works I have been doing, and they

     will do even greater things than these,

     because I am going to the Father.


But.   Let's also try Method  B   --  which is  :::  to substitute some

                                                   version of the verb "to be"

                                                   -- for the preposition.

                                 " whoever is living / being Christ "
                                 " whoever is              being Christ "

                         Yep.   That works too.

                  Very truly I tell you, whoever is being Christ

                  will do the works I have been doing, and they

                  will do even greater things than these,

                  because I am going to the Father.


So.    If I (you, whoever) am/are/is living, walking, talking,
         thinking as, acting as, breathing as, doing as, Christ
         -- then I can expect to find myself doing the greater
         things which are promised in this (Jn 14:12) verse.

Therefore -- the answer to  Inline image 4  is  :::  the "who do" is me!

And.  ♥  We have the "bottom-line" of this thing -- right there.

However.   There is another highlighted part of this verse.

     Very truly I tell you, whoever believes in me

     will do the works I have been doing, and they

     will do even greater things than these, because

     I am going to the Father.

Inline image 5    Why will I be able to do these even greater things ?

                        And that answer is  :::  because
                Yeshua is going to stop being the son
                                            -- the proof of God.

                              I am  going  to  the Father.

                              I am going to  the Father.

                              I am going to                    the Father.

                              I am going                        the Father.
means  :::               I am going to          being the Father.
                        ♥     I am going back to being the Father.
                               I am                        being the Father.

          When I surrender my skinsuit --
          I am no longer Christ on earth.

                              For then -- it is up to you to be that.

                    Remember ?    I told you that He and I are one.


               

❺    Pip's artwork

         I have sketched you a custom cartoon
         drawing for a Christmas present.   You
         will hopefully find it as an attachment
         to download for your enjoyment.

         I'm pleased that it came out with the
         intended cuteness from the source image.

         A bit of dedication to drawing is helping
         me become more capable at it.

For the past 35 years -- I had not thought
about your having any artistic proclivities
-- in the "drawing" department.

But then.   In your Sat Nov 25 2017 email to me 
-- sent at 2048 Gtime / 1948 Ptime -- you included
a delightful sketch.   In fact -- I loved it so much
that I made it my new "snooze'll paper" immediately.

                   
​

"snooze'll paper" is a contraction of "snooze wallpaper"
-- which I put up on my 'puter screen -- just before I
head for bed.

                          So -- it's the last thing I see before
                        closing my eyes -- and the first thing
                                        I let in -- upon awakening.

                And then again -- on Christmas
          Morning -- at 1022 Gtime / 0922 Ptime
         -- I received this sweet "Christmas card."



                  You are quite good y'know.
                   Possibly not a Rembrandt.  
                       But at least a Monet.

                                  ... whom I like better anyway.  
   
Mr. R's stuff was a little too dark for my affections.


                        

When I received your "happy-heart" -- I was instantly
reminded of the greatest drawing I have ever beheld.

It was early in 1983.   The artist used only one color.
And the medium was Crayola -- made right here in
Pennsylvania.   No -- not the drawing.   The crayon.

            The drawing was done in Tarzana, California.

      The artist had just recently turned 6 years old.

His name was (and probably still is)

                                           Philip Alexander Stuart.

                        


(end of Canto 8)   

               I'll be getting to Canto 10 shortly.

          Thank you Son.

     I love you Pip.

-Dad  :)​
          
difstamp​Friday, December 29, 2017  -  1043 Gtime / 0943 Ptime​
-102938475647382910-

10 attachments —
