Rough Sledding
Gerry Stuart <gerrystu@gmail.com>       Sat, Mar 10, 2018 at 8:07 PM
To: Philip <PipStuart@gmail.com>

Thread  "Rough Sledding" T23,C8/8 (G>P)

sent  Sat Mar 10 2018, 2107 Gtime / 2007 Ptime
​
                            Good Evening Philip,​​

      7 paragraphs.   All duplicated here.   All with replies.

P1

I'm not sure what the purpose of my
occasional difficulty waking and focusing is.

Maybe you can help me ascertain what it might be.

                         Maybe.

               Let's pretend you do know.

     And.   As you are pretending that you do know
     what their purpose is -- what is their purpose ?

P2

Having BiPolar Disorder indicates that
I experience fluctuations of mood.

                  Fiddlesticks!

Another case of "broken-radio" here.

Find me one person on the planet that
doesn't have mood swings -- and then
we'll entertain the idea of B.P.D.

     Every-one has B.P.D.   It goes
     along with the human condition.

As a matter of fact -- animals have 'em
too.   As well as plants -- and even God.  

                   mood swings

Curious that I've never heard of a doctor
diagnosing God as being Bipolar.   Have you ?

     Poppycock.      Falderal.      Baloney.

And.   It's not a "disorder."   It was ordered
by your maker.   ♥   It makes you:  like Him.

     The correct D-word is:   Dynamic.

Having mood swings -- is a sign of being
alive / awake / vibrant.   If you're breathing
-- I hope you are having mood swings.

     It means  :::  you're not done here yet.

                 There are still things for you
               to do on our dirtball -- before
            it's time for you to return home.

I think I usually feel slightly better
than what would be considered "normal",
and this is referred to as hypomania.

Stop buying into the labels -- haphazardly
flung about in the white offices of lab-coated
people -- who've gone through multi-years
of college -- and a few more of internships.

Though they do know a thing or two about
how the body works -- they know less than
nada about the mind.

In this department -- your radio is broken
-- because you are mimicking the radios
of your "doctors."

Our "head-doctors" like to put labels on
those who come to them with "why am
I going through this" questions -- because:
their labels (somehow) seem to justify
the prescribing of "dumbing-down"
pharmaceuticals for the seeker --
which -- not only do not help the
individual one whit.  

They (the drugs) actually exacerbate
the condition -- and pretty well guarantee
that the patient will be remanded to
endless (and hopeless) years of misery
and struggle -- and a life of wending
without direction / purpose / or fulfillment.

The truth of the matter is:  your "doctor"
has not "clue one" on the subject of why you
are:  going-through-what-you're-going-through.

But.   He masks his ignorance through the practice
of pushing pills -- which makes the payer (you)
think that "these pretty capsules" will "fix you."

And.   By the way -- you don't only pay from your
pocket.   You (far more critically) pay with your
life -- or I should say:  the loss of it.

Beware of dudes with a symbol of snakes on their
wall.   It is well placed.   The true snake is the one
in the chair below it.

      

               If you want answers about your mind --
               go to someone who #1 loves you -- and
         #2 will accept no payment whatsoever for it.

Oh.    #3.   And preferably -- someone who knows
                                        a bit about the subject.

                 And there aren't many of these.

Then sometimes for a few days up to a couple weeks,
I phase into a down-turn where I'm not quite clinically
depressed, since I rarely feel despair or self-loathing,
but I lack my typical ability to address things that
I need or want to do.

                                          Good.

P3

While I've never heard it used before, maybe such
periods could be referred to as "hypo-depression".

During such periods, I will usually sleep
quite a bit more time than I spend awake.

I feel lethargic, struggle to concentrate, lack determination
or motivation to get almost anything done, and feel like
I'm mentally stuck in a fog that I don't see a way out of.

Good for you.   Keep asking questions.   And mulling over
-- and trying out -- the possible answers you come up with.

     With pen & paper is an excellent place to do this.

          Yes -- I'll help.   But the major answers are within you.

P4

My medication and diet may play important roles,
but it's not yet obvious how much or in what ways.

                   Yes.   Explore the diet too.

But -- as I believe I've already gushed quite a bit on:

     Educate  --  and Meditate.   ♥   Don't medicate.

          Medication is a certain way to make sure that you
          will neither find answers -- nor solutions.

               The solutions are not in some chemistry.
               They are couched in the exploration of your own mind.

It's possible that the purpose of such down periods is to
enable me to experience and enjoy the ups more fully
and with heightened awareness.

                                I'm smiling here.

There are lots of possibilities.

Maybe I also just become more lazy,
lacking enthusiasm or diligence.

          You've touched upon a key key here.
          Excavate this idea further Pip.

                    Especially the "e" word.

          
​
Perhaps I haven't been sufficiently convinced that other
things need me to take care of them with any promptness
or urgency, since the consequences of attending to things
later (if at all) are usually not so terrible.

                    Uh-huh.   Remove the "perhaps"
                    -- and I'll vote for this one too.

P5

So maybe feeling down and exhausted sort of lets me
recharge for doing more again once it has passed.

I don't know that I have "called for"
any of it, but maybe I have somehow.

     Play another "pretend" game here.

                  Pretend that you have called for it.
                  And answer the question (on paper):

          "Why have I called for this ?"

It's usually a bit discouraging to become inactive
and inept when I rationalize that I should be getting
more done, but it usually gives way within a few days
and nobody was really depending on me for anything
critical during that time.

                 I (so) know this one!

When one officially "goes into retirement" --
it is so very easy to run-this-idea up the pole
-- and let it wave there for a time.

I must (along with you) plead guilty on this
holding.   Nobody is really depending on me
for anything critical ...

But.   This is a ruse.   A lie I tell myself.
And diametrically opposed to what
I share with all of my students.

P6

I'm thankfully starting to feel a good bit better this
morning, and am planning to practice calibrating
Audacity to make another recording hopefully on
Monday.

                      Monday huh.


​
In looking back over that which I have said
in this canto -- me thinks -- quite a bit of it
may have come across somewhat harsh.

     I am not upset with you.   Actually --
     the wordage is because I am a bit
     upset with me.

          But you -- Philip -- are perfect.

               Hold that.   And that I love you.

                    Hold that too.

     That's the most important holding.

P7

I am willing to explore my condition and mood-swings
with you, if you have questions or insights about it.

             I'm glad you are doing very well.

Well -- generally well.    But I have mood swings.

     Must they be factored in ?  

          Do those make me un-well ?  

               Love    Love    Love

-Dad  :)  
          
difstamp-10293847564​Sat Mar 10 2018, 2107 Gtime / 2007 Ptime​
7382910-

​               Well     Well     Well​
