So probably want to get on same page with Thread,Canto references. Issues:
0) Begin composition draft time stamp headers versus l8r sent time footers versus system meta-d8a times... Which are most useful to gener8 && utilize ahead?
1) Tables can be very difficult to completely remove from editor, especially when solitary? Are there tricks to entirely delete (or at least conceal) them?
2) Would probably prefer the (?>?) use G && P instead of D for Dad here but then uses Gtime / Ptime immeD8ly below, although maybe discrepancy makes a bit
     of sense when considering the sender > recipient is the more personal usage, while the times are more positional zone identifiers, so unify P/G S/D or no?
3) The (G>P) or (P>G) should probably correspond with the sender>recipient of whatever Canto is referenced, rather than staying from start of Thread, right?
4) Is it fine to replace the Unicode double-quotes around the subject with just standard old quotes for now? (since my utility is not gener8ing Unicode yet)

Back to issue 0 a bit more, should most new messages which are appending another Canto to an established Thread get prepended with their self-identifying
reference box as our new preferred header, but it should be inserted at the top just prior to actual sending, so that times correspond well for searching?

Maybe we can set most of the old stuff aside for a while? I think our new referencing system will help immensely whenever we l8r wish to revisit any already
touched-on topic. We have gotten into a lot of pretty deep stuff over the last many weeks, and some of it maybe just scratches the surface, but I am feeling
pretty comfortable to leave most of that behind for now, kind of simmering on a back-burner. So can we rekindle the most unresolved stuff again a bit l8r?

I may need to share the Yudkowsky AI-Risk stuff, if I haven't yet.

I have pushed some upd8s to know.ls && 8.txt which you may not have noticed or digested yet.

Once you feel sufficiently caught up with that l8st material, do you have any thoughts about already established Threads which contain hanging questions or
other aspects which seem like they would be best to discuss in greater detail promptly (rather than being shelved for now)... or do you have any good ideas
for new Threads which might be most beneficial to start up next?

I'm sorry you were and are #5 in the strained phone story. I'm still trying to figure out which number I most likely am, and whether I could have handled or
described it all any better. Please let me know if I could learn to serve a better role amidst it all.

Regarding the Photos albums, almost all the images were originally captured on my phone and had only resided there until I decided most to be fit for public
display so I uploaded && published them through Google's Photos applic8ion. Due to this picture pipeline, most of the images have not yet been sepR8ly
downloaded to my computers, so I don't yet have any easy way to just grab an entire album and send it to you as a single .zip file archive or anything like
that. I expect that you can probably select each image through the web interface and manually download each one, which may be what I end up doing if I find
myself really wanting better local copies of all of them. I will let you know if I do go through such a process or discover some other way to easily send you
everything at once. Please feel free to let me know if you have any difficulty downloading copies of whatever your favorites are from the website. I should be
able to easily select whatever your Top8 are and just send them directly to your GMail account from my phone again, although that would be a good opportunity
to start saving some of the best on my computer hard drives too, where they'll be easier to preserve or manipul8 in the future, so I might just go that route.
Sorry I can't be of much more help there just yet.

I'm excited to be learning more about the Radio. Head, Mouth, Paper, Life... sounds interesting and good.

Maybe instead of juggling too many other Threads right now, we can try to focus on two mains:
0) Fundamentals, Materials, and Plans for Fixing the Radio
1) studying one rule each month from Dr. Peterson's 12 Rules for Life
... along with whatever additional Threads seem most pressing. How does such a distill8ion sound to you?

Umm the "more hearty" might have been a good pun for both of us and something to joke about without taking it too seriously, but I suspect you may have
misinterpreted it as hoping that there would be notably "more" as though it were in contrast to there being none or not enough so far. I'm pretty sure I
intended it to be like "hopefully loading additional heaps atop the already abundant". I think our messages are remarkably heart-felt and hearty in strength
and sincerity and growing capacity for delving into more difficult and unsavory topics.

I love you, Dad.
