Good Afternoon Dad,

Thank you for your love as the most important thing you would have me hold. Thank you also for your whole message. I appreciate the sentiments and concerns.

There seems to have surfaced a great many important issues that it looks like we should deliberate over -- for probably a lengthy while -- so I concur with you that setting T22 N.P. aside for now makes more sense (so I am postponing my plan to record FTR000C tomorrow, Monday).

I find that all 7 of my original paragraphs received replies which should probably each themselves be dealt with, and in some detail.

P1:

Pretend knowing the purpose of difficulty waking and focusing? "The purpose includes providing my mind and body with challenging phases of fatigue and confusion to endure and overcome so that I may resume some more typical levels of energy, clarity, and productivity. The purpose also includes many other things, such as offering a window into greater struggles between the chaotic potential constraints of my consciousness and the preferable orderings which permit more consistent personal exploration, integration, and transformation. The purpose is also to remind me about persistent limitations and unreliability which bound my capacity to maintain effective routine on a daily, weekly, seasonal, etc. basis. The purpose includes providing recurring variation on perspectives into my potential. The purpose includes giving me opportunities to accept or recalibrate my understanding, self-image, and expectations. The purpose includes enhancing my gratitude for the things I can achieve, knowing better that conditions most conducive to perfecting myself and the universe are precious and often precarious."

While I anticipate you might also want me to pretend I somehow know what God's purpose for weary periods too, I don't find any good ideas yet for how to feign such knowledge. I have pretended that I have certitude (or great confidence) in knowing aspects of higher purpose, but I seriously doubt I actually know much about any deep truth to my postulations. I feel quite clumsy when pretending to know particularly complex or possibly unknowable things. It's disconcerting to maintain pretense of thorough knowledge when things appear far from definite. Maybe the estimated magnitude of incongruity produces commensurate cognitive dissonance which is mostly hard to steer through usefully. Of course it can often be a useful exercise of imagination, but such value is threatened by self-delusion and feeling disingenuous.

Maybe I would benefit from some better understanding of the purpose of pretense and how to practice it best, but my inclination, tendency, and strong preference remains with speaking truth carefully and avoiding the implication that I know things that I don't yet. Mom has a good mantra of: "Simply say what's true!" with kinship to Dr. Peterson's Rule 8: "Tell the truth -- or, at least, don't lie." I have tried to pretend in ways you obviously find purposeful, but I really don't like doing it around important concepts because the down-sides of clouding my real lack of confidence with artificially earnest proclamations usually seems worse than whatever benefits might be gained from pretending. The more genuinely I pretend to know, the more unstable my actual knowledge usually becomes, probably because my unconscious mind can be readily influenced or deceived by iterations over even my artificial certainty.

For these reasons, I will probably become somewhat more stubborn and reluctant to pretend much more like this for a while, until maybe it becomes more clear as a tool to help more than harm within appropriate contexts.

P2:

First of all, I am pretty sure that psychological "BPD" refers overwhelmingly to Borderline Personality Disorder and maybe just "BD" would be the better abbreviation to use for Bipolar Disorder. Confusing the two conditions is probably generally a bad idea which distinct initialing can help avoid. It makes sense to want emphasis on the "Polar" part as more descriptive than just "Bi" but disambiguating the abbreviations we could employ should promote more precise discussions.

Next, can you please elaborate on what "broken-radio" means when you recognize "another case" of it? I mainly interpret it so far as some indication that the thinking that underlies some interpersonal communication is crucially in error, but I'm pretty sure you also intend for it to represent inadequate spiritual communion with God. I would appreciate some treatment of why "radio" is the applicable metaphor to describe aspects of human psyche and essence or soul or whatever... and then also hopefully a few demonstrative examples of the most prevalent ways such can be assessed as "broken" since I don't yet grasp much significance from these associations.

Now you've said "Fiddlesticks!" and then "Poppycock. Falderal. Baloney." as response to my statement about my having Bipolar, what that indicates, and my experience. While some healthy skepticism regarding any or all of those aspects is justifiable, I find your argument for probably the dismissal of all three to be severely lacking. Hopefully we can break some of this down and come to better agreement on the meanings behind our terms.

Let me start by clarifying that I mistakenly assumed you had some familiarity with what Bipolar Disorder specifically refers to. I wrote simply "fluctuations of mood" without carefully qualifying that this is not meant in some casual obvious simplistic literal sense. It's not about merely any possible "change" or "swing" of mood. It means prolonged, severe, and abnormal variations which are detrimental and dangerous. The fluctuations are chaotic, mercurial, and disorderly from a clinical standpoint.

Your contention seems to proceed something like:

  0) All people have moods that can "swing" (in the very simple sense of merely any typical non-threatening "change" whatsoever).
  1) Because of 0, all people have Bipolar Disorder (as part of the "human condition").
  2) Animals, plants, and God all also have changes in mood, further implying that Bipolar is actually universal and normal.
  3) Since both you and I have never heard of a doctor diagnosing God as "being" (or usually better said as "having") Bipolar, this somehow diminishes the credibility or usefulness of prevailing descriptions of the condition.

So with 0, "mood swing" actually means markedly abnormal, precarious, and destructive or dangerous. With 1, no, all people do not have clinical Bipolar Disorder, since it describes something that manifests in approximately 1% of the human population and is not any normal or inherent part of the entire human condition. With 2, of course animals also have moods which change, but it's much less clear that plants experience something similar enough to warrant mention. Then we don't have consensus on whether God exists or not, which undermines the effectiveness of claiming traits or changes are things God can and does experience. Number 3 seems ridiculous and insignificant for many reasons. Maybe it was meant as humorous and intended for levity, possibly implied by being prefaced with "curious that...", but still nobody has proven that any gods or just one God can or must exist, and even if that had been done, it remains a perplexing proposition to suggest doctors would be capable of analytically interacting with and diagnosing such a being... and then you seem to probably be assuming that all of this could have, should have, and would have already happened by now if God (that you take for granted) exhibited the traits and behaviors of Bipolar Disorder.

Please read HTTPS://En.WikiPedia.Org/wiki/Bipolar_disorder including the early sections regarding episodes significantly persisting from between 4 days (hypomania) to 6 months (more likely hypermania or depression) and having many rare and harmful features. It is not particularly useful to wave away the entire classification as merely "some universal (i.e., normal) changes in mood or behavior", since this is a strawman argument which appears oblivious to the intended and described meanings behind the terminology.

So I say my own: Poppycock back to your "fiddlesticks"!

Once you arrive at some more accepted understanding of what Bipolar is, then do you still disagree that I may have been repeatedly and correctly diagnosed as having the disorder? Do you disagree with specific things that it indicates? Do you disagree that my experiences of swings and fluctuations have been severe and dangerous?

Then you claim it's not a "disorder" because it was ordered by God and is something that makes me similar to Him. You oversimplify the whole condition again as merely "dynamic". The prevailing definition describes a problematic disorder. It's not clear whether God exists or what God ordered. There's also some apparent ambiguity in "ordered" since the normal meaning is basically to give some specific order to a set of items, but your usage here and previously saying that I have ordered swings from God implies a variation akin to selecting from a restaurant menu for what should be brought about, as opposed to the application of some particular sequence, hierarchy, or other organization among components. It's not clear what God orders (in either sense) or what I could order (or request) from Him. Belief in a knowable and involved God requires much faith, which I presently lack, but still feel sympathetic to.

Then you put forth that I should "stop buying into the labels" without compelling demonstration of which labels are unuseful or inadequate and why. "Hypomania" has an important definition which provides valuable meaning in mental health contexts, even if you deny that. You rail that such labels are "haphazardly flung about", which may be true in many cases, but it also ironically seems that you are also too "haphazard" in your superficial interpretations of whatever labels you consider best to disregard. Usually the labels are descriptive, significant, and worthy of distinction in particular cases, and the understood potential treatments can help people and save many lives. Sure, there are exceptions where labeling is based on ulterior motives, unreliable characteristics, or otherwise troubling as overly simplistic, stigmatizing, stultifying, etc. but I think most of the intention and impact they have is beneficial, enabling, and life-saving. I don't think you should throw the baby out with the bathwater.

You seem to claim that "they" (haphazard lab-coated college graduates) know a little about the workings of the human body... but "less than nada" about the mind. This implies that your estimation of what they claim to know about the mind is not only wrong, but so harmful that it's collectively worse than knowing actually nothing. I think you could identify many specific cases of that, but it still wouldn't be appropriate to paint them all with the same brush. Your general condemnation of seemingly the entire fields of Psychology and Psychiatry (maybe including Dr. Peterson too, or granting him peculiar outlier status regarding knowledge of the mind) probably should be restricted to careless malpractice as deserving of your channeled ire, without lumping the whole professions in as malicious social engineers of deliberate or collateral deception and oppression. Maybe you're just personally wounded and therefore passionate and prone to some exaggeration, but it would probably be arduous or impossible to demonstrate that all (or somehow just average) Psychology knows less than nothing about the human mind. I think Dr. Peterson's work with references to Jung, Freud, Nitzsche, etc. would readily refute that claim.

So then my radio is broken because it mimicks the radios of "doctors" supposedly, but you haven't shown how all or most doctors are unequivocally wrong, such that mimickry would then be wrong also. You put the doctors in quotations, implying they're only artificially qualified for the title, but most have probably studied and come to understand a great deal more than you can give them credit for. You're also assuming I only mimick the doctors, denying that my own experiences and assessments could be credible and reinforcing, rather than merely some regurgitation of psychobabble and arbitrary labels. You might be correct that all, or almost all, the doctors involved in mental health are wrong and harmful, and that my usage of any such tainted terminology is therefore also broken similarly... but I think you'll need a much more thorough and compelling case before your evaluations and conclusions can become persuasive.

Then you imply that their labels can never adequately justify prescribing medication, that all such pharmaceuticals are appropriately characterized as "dumbing-down", and that they never help individual patients at all. Sometimes medication really saves a life or facilitates preservation of enjoyable qualities of life, only some are fair to consider as dumbing, and even for that subset of drugs, many patients are clearly helped a great deal. You're too dismissive and probably willfully uninformed about the widespread benefits of treatments that most patients gain from, instead confirming your pre-existing and deep-seated biases that it's all deleterious and deserving of absolute contempt. Things aren't so black and white.

So you say the drugs actually exacerbate the condition, but you apparently have your own definition of what a "condition" is, apart from so-called "doctors" with their haphazard labels. You probably see the general "condition" as merely seeking answers to "Why am I going through this?" type questions, so combined with your errant assumption that medications are exclusively dumbing, of course patients would then get worse, stuck in endless and hopeless years of misery and struggle, deprived of direction, purpose, or fulfillment. You grossly overlook so many things. Often conditions are real, persistent, and terrible to begin with. Only a subset of possible medications are clearly "dumbing-down". In most cases, doctors collaborate with their patients to identify which drugs and complementary treatments can be found as most effective with the fewest side-effects. Tons of patients are treated well and properly, experiencing improvement and recovery from previously debilitating and destructive consequences of mental illness. You're in denial about, or ignorant of, the widespread benefits therapies can bring.

Then you claim doctors have again absolutely no clue whatsoever on why a patient may be going through some suffering. If your doctor asks you questions about all the circumstances and you answer at all informatively, then obviously your doctor has gained some clue about maybe why, especially when combined with previously comparable and relevant experience treating such conditions. Your blanket statements can't hold up. My personal experience can serve as counter-point and refutation. I have told my current Psychiatrist about my experiences and symptoms of Bipolar Disorder and he has cautiously brought to bear his knowledge of available medications which have proven most likely to help keep me back from the precipice of stressful extremes of hypermania or depression. He has helped me taper my dosages down to the minimal amounts his experience indicates can still be effective. He has listened to me and helped me to promptly find superior alternatives when some side-effects became too much trouble. He has helped me not to be forced into another mental hospital since undergoing treatment. Dr. Peterson has a clue about why his clients, students, and broader audience suffers.

Not all doctors are masking ignorance as greedy incentivized pill-pushers. Sometimes there are conflicts-of-interest and perks associated with giving certain prescriptions, but this is corruption and perversion of the broader principles designed to heal people. Yes, some people want to pay for pretty capsules which magically fix them, and some such pills indeed bring about death more quickly, but these are not usually the case.

Yes, we should remain wary of snakes in both nature and symbolism, and some "dudes" are appropriately likened to snakes in a chair, but jumping to reflexive conclusions that the whole field of medicine is more about deadly deception than saving and improving lives is just too impulsive and pessimistic when compared to the abundance of contradictory evidence.

Then, sure some answers about your mind can be found from people who #1 love you and #2 are not paid and #3 who know a bit about the subject... but you concede yourself that these qualifications are necessarily quite limiting. Maybe such scarce loved ones can indeed provide valuable answers that nobody else could, but of course some still totally worthwhile answers can also be found by asking experts and professionals who are paid somehow, that often have trained to know a lot more about the subject than any close relatives are likely to. Some valuable answers about your mind may even be found from your sworn enemies and people who actually hate you but still know things you haven't learned yet. You're right to recognize that the underlying motivations and incentives to answering questions of mind can vary the quality of results, and therefore some sources are likely more trustworthy and accurate than others, but practical and useful answers to genuinely asked questions might still come from unlikely or traditional sources. Discriminating too aggressively based on some idealized levels of perceived purity is likely to restrict you from finding many other objectively helpful answers that could prove themselves too, if just properly considered.

P3:

Thanks. Yeah, I intend to continue asking questions, mulling things over, and trying out possible answers. I type a lot more into my computer than I usually feel compelled to write with pen and paper, but sometimes fall back on them when they're more convenient. Maybe the major answers remain within me, and can be teased out hopefully when most needed. Thank you for being willing to help.

P4:

Regarding my diet, I think Dr. Peterson's advice to prefer fat and protein for an almost daily breakfast may help my routine to stabilize without the sugar-spikes of my familiar oatmeals and cereals. Education and meditation are certainly important, but proper medication can be too. We possess a great deal of complex biochemistry which animates our bodies. The composition of foods we digest can be thoroughly analogous to medicine. Vitamins, nutrients, sugars, bacteria, etc. all can have a palpably beneficial impact when ingested appropriately.

You're wrong about medication. It is far from certain that it will deprive you of answers or solutions. Sometimes, even though you probably can't admit it, medication itself is the best available answer or solution.

You say solutions are not in some chemistry, but are couched in the exploration of your own mind. Our minds are filled with complex chemical interactions. Manipulation of neurochemistry can be the source of some critical solutions, and anyway they are not mutually exclusive. You can find some solutions through self-exploration and others through medication and there doesn't need to be any inherent conflict or other reason to disregard the presently understood biology behind the working mind. Chemistry is real. It's demonstrable and verifiable. It's short-sighted and counter-productive to insist that no problems are resolved by manipulating biochemistry. Maybe your personal experience and strong preference is to deny the utility of any and all medications, but you would not at all be holding a popular opinion. Do you think diabetics would live better if they ignored insulin medication or people who are severely depressed and fixated on suicide could live as long or as well without anti-depressants? Do you consider an infectious disease vaccine to be just another medication that it would be better to avoid? If you really could care most about finding the best available answers and solutions, you would accept that some medications can provide those under the right circumstances. You're too closed-minded and dogmatic in dismissing anything you consider to be medication. Skepticism can be healthy, but some prescription medications could enable even you to live better and experience a more fulfilling remainder of your life.

Neurochemistry is real. Have you read Chapter 1 from Dr. Peterson's 12 Rules for Life yet? Do you deny that serotonin and other key neurotransmitters have profound and pronounced impact on almost every living species?

Hmm. Yes, enthusiasm (or lack of it) probably warrants further excavation. I think mood is a conceptual amalgam which incorporates aspects of enthusiasm. I will try to think about it more, to hopefully uncover anything insightful about how it might play into my proclivities for procrastination, goal-orientation, motivations, etc. and will respond in more detail if I identify aspects which seem worth relating further.

I still think the "perhaps" still belongs there, for me at least. I'm not certain yet.

P5:

I know you're asking me to pretend again that I have called for mild-depressive periods, and to answer why... but I'm not good at doing that. I don't believe I have called either God or myself for such periods. I think they are merely an aspect of the increasingly well-understood consequences of my repeated and accurate diagnosis of suffering from Bipolar Disorder. They probably are not consequences of any cosmic purpose or plan, but rather just mainly manifestations of chemical and structural imbalances in my brain. I believe that my doctors, care-takers, and I may eventually discover additional treatments which diminish the impact and duration of such periods, such that my quality-of-life thereafter would be further improved. I also feel relatively well-adjusted to the seemingly somewhat greater likelihood that those type of lethargic phases must permeate the remainder of my life, and be accounted for and integrated into my internal monologue about my identity and vulnerabilities, so that I can best accept who I most seem to be, what extents can be explored around my capabilities, and how to continue progressing towards whoever I would most like to become. I want to find relatively good balance between ascertaining the reality of who I am and optimistically aspiring for continuing improvement towards my highest potentials. Sorry that I'm not willing to try the pretending route right now, but I will let you know if it becomes amicable to me again.

So how is thinking "nobody is really depending on me for anything critical" actually a ruse and lie opposed to what you share with students?

P6:

I'm no longer planning to record again tomorrow (Monday). I'd rather we first delve sufficiently into all these concepts surrounding mental illness, disorder, medication, broken radios, etc. since aligning our shared and conflicting understandings of these topics is likely to inform and facilitate better connections between us thereafter for anything else we can relate together or collaborate on.

It's okay that much of your canto may have come across somewhat harsh. I hope you can find me to be somewhat competently rising to the occasion of contending with and against it, with sometimes harshness of my own. Thank you for clarifying that you are not upset with me as much as with yourself, even though I wasn't presently too worried about that. I hear that you continue to insist that I am perfect. I will keep trying to hold that, while I also hold that I am just another flawed human man, who clearly has limitations and imperfections that will probably remain significant as ballast against the fewer and more idealized perspectives from which I could be judged somehow faultless. I reiterate that I will keep the most important holding that you love me. You should also please hold fast that I love you too.

P7:

Again, simple "mood swings" may not need to be factored into much, if anything, but persistent symptoms of clinical disorder probably must be factored in carefully as quite likely to make you "un-well". It may continue to depend on what you mean and imply with those words.

Love,
-Pip =)
