Not Dismal?
Pip Stuart <pipstuart@gmail.com>
Apr 9		
to Gerry
Tuesday, April 9, 2013, 1727 Gtime / 1627 Ptime D49GRV

Hi Dad,

I love you.

I want to be candid, but I know that feels impossible with you because you have the capacity to devour everything I attempt to convey and then you may note detected subtlety or inflection but my intent can still be missed. I think that's almost exclusively my fault for having such deep reservations about being scrutinized so spectacularly. I feel uncomfortably naked after meticulous deconstruction. I've felt guilt, inadequacy, cowardice, incompetence, etc.. I know you love me and have not chosen these for me, but then they feed each other into thinking it's my own fault for continuing to choose them for myself.

I went crazy. I did think I could just pray to you at any time and that you'd hear me and respond through the birds, the trees, or the wind. Most of the people on this planet consider that psychotic "hearing voices" and I admit that those were some times when I may have been the farthest from grounded in reality. So now I'm considered to be disabled with Bipolar disorder. I did experience extended mania and occasional depression.

During much of my mania, I believed that you were like G-d and I was like Y'shua and that we and our universe were perfect. Everything was going and going, goood and goood, good and good, goo and goo. The universe was comprised of purely good goo that goes. There was no real way to mess the goodness up.

Now it seems I'm on the opposite side of forced mental and physical hospitalizations and off crystal methamphetamine and on Olanzapine ("Zyprexa") and marijuana for over 3 years of consistent stability and I'm directed to steer clear of delusions that might lead me into additional episodes.

I find that your connections to G-d and mine to Messiah have been often useful and helpful but when it comes to a tendency to be melodramatic and extreme in identity formation and to further encourage delusions and voices, those feel intimidatingly counter-productive to me now. I think they were essential when I was spun out so far, to keep me attached just enough to be able to resume somewhat sane functioning as each episode dwindled, and maybe I can hang onto those ideas again for the impending likelihood that I'll find myself getting crazy again, but I think it's repellent to me as general dialogue right now because I'm cautioned that I'm less likely to remain alive if I flip out another time like I did.

I also feel that your insistence on our perfection and literal roles (that I feel I have to difficultly take as more figurative) sets me up for failure unless I somehow establish your Heaven kingdom here and save every life
from death. When I was crazy, I thought I could and did achieve those things and I made several public spectacles and got locked up and force injected with untold medications. I think those experiences have scared the crap out of me to where I've hardly been able to concentrate enough to read or write or even enjoy music or videogames like I used to. TroubleConcentrating should be seen as a gift. I'm trying to do so, but it's easier to resent it as evidence of my failures and further roadblock to me ever being able to provide for myself financially and take care of myself generally again. I think my inability to e-mail or call my old friends resembles your not speaking somewhat as a channel of communicative silence, although mine is largely due to shame and lost self-esteem and an inability to rehearse what I could have to share that would be worthwhile any more with people I feel I'm caring for by not bothering them with my craziness any longer. I'm pretty sure your not vocalizing words has been due to entirely different reasons and circumstances.

Anyway, this composition to you is already a lot more than I've been able to write to anyone for over 3 years. I think I'm slowly healing and becoming able to read and concentrate and engage more responsively again.

So there's a few things I'd like to ask:

  0) Is it okay with you if I'm mainly just a dude, a bloke, some guy and not the perfect Savior of the world? Can you recognize that I'm mostly *not* perfect?

  1) If you appreciate my desire to think of myself as more fallible and mundane, can you please try to tone down the eternity talk? I fear it contributes to my mental instability and I don't wish to become a patient again.

  2) I love the beautiful web-pages you compose to me as letters but wish they could please be ported to W3C standards so they could more easily live on in FireFox or Chrome rather than requiring commercial licenses for the operating system underlying InternetExplorer?

  3) If you have time, could you please consider learning the Unix Philosophy and see if you can run Ubuntu GNU/Linux locally and learn about it?

My software preferences are free. I've also started an admittedly grandiose software project which will likely only run on Ubuntu for a while, since that's all I have access to for now. I haven't afforded a version of Microsoft anything since XP, so I don't have an easy way of developing or testing software I write for your preferred platform. I'm hoping you'll consider at least running both your familiar XPMode and Ubuntu so that I can eventually have a hope of sharing any of my newly written software with you directly. Maybe you could use a dedicated second machine. I'm aiming to have coded at least something worth demonstrating by your birthday later this year.

When you have time and interest, I'd also please like to hear what you think about mania, Bipolar, schizophrenia, medication, etc. as they may pertain to each of us.

Thanks Dad!

Love, <3
-Pip

Tuesday, April 9, 2013, 1836 Gtime / 1736 Ptime D49Haim

P.S. I think my windows are East and South facing here on HoneyLou. =)

Pip Stuart <pipstuart@gmail.com>
Apr 9
to Gerry
Oops. East and North windows (not South like you).

I don't mean to disparage your wisdom on eternal matters either. You're sharp on a lot of things. I'm just wary of thinking too highly of myself any more. I want to write good software again that can prove I am worthwhile and am capable again and have more to offer others rather than just being a disabled drain.
