Dear Dad,

Thank you for the messages. I have updated my code to generate Thread reference tables with latest highlights, which I plan to insert below my traditional starting headers at send-time for closer consistency between us.

I have also just become mobile with a 2004 Mercury Sable again, getting it registered and insured yesterday. So if you ever want to fly into Oshkosh or Appleton airport, I should be able to pick you up there and shuttle you back after a stay for a couple days. It's great to have wheels again, after a decade of only relying on buses or other drivers for transport. So much nicer for getting winter groceries and seeing friends!

I have been ruminating and meditating on things, and particularly our "Narration Project" for a week now and I think I just have two more issues to mention (beyond what we've already discussed):

0) Octology - I just want to make clear that both "Fix the Radio: Narration Project" and "Octology" remain important projects for me to consider right now for the future. My loyalty is divided. While I estimate Octology to be in a rather minimal maintenance mode at the moment, if any severe issues surface which require careful attention or especially if any sort of feedback community forms to report bugs or bump feature priorities beyond my own needs, I am likely to feel obligated to manage those promptly. It seems pretty unlikely that anyone besides me is going to start noticing or using Octology at all soon (probably at least until I implement quite a bit more compelling code), so it probably won't require much if any attention for a good while, but I just want to be upfront with you that I am not ready to abandon it.

1) smoking  - I also want to be candid that I am still smoking a few small cigars each day, so I apologize in advance if this contributes to me losing my voice at any point. I am trying to keep it under 3 per day (or a 20-pack per week), but sometimes go a little past that. My goal is to completely quit smoking all tobacco within this 2018 year, but it's quite a habit and struggle for me to kick completely free from. I know it's problemmatic for both health and narration, which I feel guilty about, so I will keep trying to replace it with better habits.

So then, yes, I think I am ready to be "All In" on our "Narration Project", whenever you are ready too. I look forward to seeing whatever our similar ambitions can accomplish together.
