Sorry But Not Shovel Time
Pip Stuart <pipstuart@gmail.com>
Apr 22
to Gerry
Monday, April 22, 2013, 0143 Gtime / 0043 Ptime D4M0hrT

Hi Dad,

It seems I claimed I wanted to be candid and avoid melodrama and then I proceeded to bungle both of those up all throughout my previous e-mail to you on April 9th. I was overreacting a lot. I normally am nowhere near as angst-ridden and self-loathing as I felt back then with that outburst. Your response largely confirms that I was imploring you to treat me in some different way when there's probably no point in attempting such.

I'm sorry to have troubled you with my misplaced anxiety and identity struggles, when I'm thoroughly unwilling to do the digging with you. I know it just seemed as though that's what I wanted to do with you, but I do not. I trust that you continue to love me as well as you're able and that's all I really need from you. I don't actually need you to see me as perfect or imperfect or fallible or whatever else and I don't find I need any additional form of ultimate approval or satisfaction from you that will assure me I've been sufficiently pleasing to you. Obviously there's a lasting component of me that seeks your advice and guidance, even when to do so would be folly.

I'm aware I need to shovel, but it mostly should be done alone or with the closer guidance of Mom and my therapist. They both know me better and I relate better with either of them than I have so far been able to do with you. They're reliably there for me. You remain mostly not so.

It's not for lack of trying on your part. I think you know me, and continue to want to learn more of me, as well as you're able to. I also think you laid the foundations for me to grow up under constant identity pressure and ultimately clashing reality turmoil which have been crucial aspects of my record of mental instability. For this reason, there may be a day ahead when I truly do feel ready to attempt to engage you more directly on not only my lack of perfection but also your potential culpability in my ongoing strife. Maybe you're not to blame or even to be confronted on responsibility for your own apparent mental problems predictably precipitating mine.

I didn't mean to tease you or cause you undue grief either. You are my earthly father, and I will continue to love you as well as I can too, but I think it prudent for me to keep my serious mental stability discussions between myself and those who seem more stable than I have been. Your sudden and persistent lack of speech, your dogged approach to playing with words and everything into instructing wisdom with paramount roles, these are the hallmarks of someone estranged from almost all family and everyone but their elderly class reunion. I find it simultaneously endearing and pitiful. I want to respect you and try to honor whatever you'd be able to convey to me, but I can't do that with genuineness in my heart because I don't want to become a father like you have been.

You didn't pay child support and weren't there as we grew up. I suspect I've already connected with you as meaningfully as we'll ever truly be able, although apparently I'm giving you at least slight opportunity to prove me wrong still ahead. The way you've related to me all along feels as though you try to hear me and understand, but your attempts remain hollow to a sometimes abysmal extent because you've mandated axioms at the fundament of my inception that make yourself into G-d over me. Then you've shown me that you simultaneously adored me and didn't care to really know me. It has always rung superficial or perfunctory, like I'm just the tawdry Jesus part in your personal play. It feels as though you deign to let me write my own lines, but there's no room to actually alter your deluded idealized narrative.

So I don't really think I'm just a worthless mess and disabled drain most of the time. I generally recognize that I continue to recuperate from the most stressful mental episodes and circumstances I've yet experienced, and it's okay that I wish I could code lucidly again and have great frustration that I still have much farther to go to be able to concentrate that well again. Maybe I won't be transcending mediocrity again for quite a while ahead, if ever. I'm sure there's a lot I'm trying to say in these e-mails, but the previous one (or actually 2 including the quick P.S.) on April 9th seemed mostly misguided.

I don't really need any of those things I wrote, so feel free to keep up perfect eternity talk if that's what strikes your fancy. I'll probably continue to read your letters at my convenience, but I'm sure you'll understand if I turn to focus more on my mental stability and away from you for a longer while. I feigned interest in your opinion on medication and mental disorder. I think I'd actually rather not worry about whatever you think about those things, for now. I don't need standard HTML or Ubuntu from you. Just be you. You're mostly sweet and sentimental and harmless. I just know I'm meowing up the wrong tree to turn to you for any additional direction on my deep identity struggles, at least right now. I expect you would assist if you could. Thanks anyway.

Love,
-Pip

Monday, April 22, 2013, 0322 Gtime / 0222 Ptime D4M2MeW
