IP-MobileApp-LorenAnKarlo-callNotes-99U9Brw.txt (Wed Sep 30 09:11:53:58 2009 PDT)
L&&K had some issues wi NDA that they expect to sort out later today or soon.
L:Focus on hi-lvl tech for this conversation.
Need2bld prototyp showing we can gather at least focus-grp data. Prolly need to dcide platform.
K:IF needs2work with momz in suprmarkt co lyn?
L:Not4prototyp. Pip, want to describe your platform findings?
...
K:Recommends iPhone or maybNokia(sinc bkgrnded apz can be a prob as lackng from iPhon)
L:Let's mv2featurz.Questions2Sasha on func:
  0)UseCases? OJ mom in stor, input, prod-featurz, usability?
    AlsoAdmn use wi bkend ovrsyt
  1)Connectivity? Replac usr mobl devicz? iPodTouch? Just4Trial?
  2)Tied2DvicDistro or anApp? (&& if so, avail in AppStor)
  3)ForPitch purpz,doez instald-base matr?

KKilayko@GMail.Com

--actual e-mail--
from:Pip   Stuart  <PipStuart@GMail.Com>
to  :Loren Kaiser  <Loren@Kai-Tech.Com>,
     Karlo Kilayko <KKilayko@GMail.Com>
date:Wed, Sep 30, 2009 at 10:55am
subject:IP MobileApp Wed. 9am Morning Meeting Call Notes

Loren called Pip, then conference called in Karlo. (Loren and Karlo
were driving, Pip was at his computer)
Pip and Karlo were introduced.
Loren and Karlo discussed some minor issues they have yet to resolve
with NDAs, expect them to sort out soon.
<dialog paraphrased>
L:So let's try to focus on high-level technology issues for this
conversation. We need to build a prototype which shows that we can at
least gather this focus-group data. We probably need to decide on the
platform first.
K:Does the interface need to work with overwhelmed moms in the
supermarket check-out line?
L:Not for the prototype. Pip, please describe your platform research findings.
P:Apple's iPhone seemed too restrictive for this prototyping phase
when compared with alternative platforms that favor more open-source
collaboration on the Mobile Operating Systems and development
tool-sets, such as:

 * Open Hardware Alliance's (OHA's) Android (which started within,
and was subsequently opened by, Google)

 * N900 on Maemo (by Nokia)

 * Pixi on WebOS (by Palm)

Others which may warrant consideration are MobLin, Ubuntu Mobile
Edition, Access Linux Platform (ALP), ...

K:I recommend iPhone, or maybe Nokia since I have connections there
and the lack of support for backgrounding applications may be a
crucial hindrance of iPhone.
L:Let's move to features. Pip, please take notes (since Karlo and I
are driving) listing questions on functionality that we all have for
Sasha.

 1a) What are our primary "front-end" use-cases? Is this for a
saddled mom trying to juggle phoning her OJ choice along with too many
other things? What sorts of input, product-features, and usability can
be designated by these representative use-cases?

 1b) What are our primary "back-end" use-cases? How will the tests be
specified, administered, deployed, monitored, modified, audited,
aggregated, summarized, and presented from the operator's view-point?

 2) How integral is instant connectivity? Are we expecting to replace
every end-user's existing mobile phone? Could a sometimes-connected
iPodTouch version be a good alternative to support (maybe just during
trials)?

 3) Is this program tied to a specific device that must be
distributed pre-configured or is it an application available in an
AppStore?

 4) For pitch purposes, how significant is the installed-base of the
target hardware platform that we prototype on?

P:I think we should like to have a rough list of priorities as to the
significance of many aspects that should go into platform selection
beyond installed-base, like:

 * ease of development

 * ease of deployment

 * ease of demonstration or presentation

 * impact of demonstration (how impressive some platforms potentially
fancy features could be)

 * ease of administration

L:Thanks. That seems good for now. Pip, please take down Karlo's
e-mail address and send these notes to each of us so that I can
discuss them with Sasha and get back to you two later. Feel free to
carry on any discussions or link-sharing directly together.
KP:Thanks.
L:I'll arrange another meeting for us again soon.
KP:Okay.
LKP:Bye.
<disconnections>

P.S. Please feel free to add any additional details I may have missed. -Pip
